 We're effectively the outsourced business development arm for the entire Bitcoin ecosystem.
 Inherent in our model is that we win by ensuring the entire ecosystem wins.
 Hello there, how are you all doing?
 You're right.
 Now we're back at it here.
 We're getting some shows ready.
 We've got so many lined up in the next couple of weeks.
 I can't wait to let you hear them all.
 We've also got our live event in a few days.
 We've got Lynn Alden, Jeff Snyder, Troy Cross and Harry Sutter all doing a live What Bitcoin
 Did.
 If you want a ticket for that, head over to whatbitcoindid.com and click on WBD live.
 Anyway, welcome to the What Bitcoin Did podcast, which is brought to you by Iris Energy, the
 largest NASDAQ listed Bitcoin miner using 100% renewable energy.
 I'm your host Peter McCormack.
 And today I've got Obi back on to talk everything Feddy and Feddy Mint.
 Now listen, Feddy Mint is something I've struggled to get my head around.
 I've had Obi on the show before to explain it to me and recently we had Callion who went
 through his implementation of e-cash.
 But I still struggle to get my head around it.
 The thing I can't get my head around is how us as Bitcoiners are encouraging people to
 give up their private keys.
 So you know what I did?
 I said to Obi, come back on the show, convince me and maybe even run through setting up a
 federation as well.
 That was a blast.
 I hope you enjoy this.
 I think Obi's a great guy and I'm definitely coming around to the idea.
 But if you've got any points about this or any questions, drop me an email.
 It's hello@whatbitcoindid.com.
 I mean, I hate my voice.
 I hate it.
 Why?
 I don't know.
 I just, because it's, you know, the whole thing about voices, right?
 You hear it different from everyone else.
 Except for now I can actually hear what other people hear.
 Yeah.
 So I'm hearing, I'm like, wow, I sound like a fucking moron.
 How do I have any friends?
 Why is everyone listening to my podcast?
 But yeah, no, Danny's been unbelievable and he's not just obviously a work colleague.
 He's a friend now and I want him to be successful.
 That's the best way.
 Yeah.
 He drinks whiskey now.
 I do drink whiskey now.
 I was just thinking, I repeat this again and again, but I've had different experiences
 with partnering with people in the past and the two co-founders I have right now, Eric
 Sirian, El Sirian and Justin Moon, they're incredible people.
 And I always feel the most luckiest thing for me was meeting, initially it was Eric
 because it was completely accidental.
 We share a number of core philosophies with each other, but you know, we just come from
 two completely different worlds.
 And it was like pure accident that we bumped into each other.
 Otherwise we would have probably never met, even though we were both in Bitcoin circles,
 it's just the people we hang out with and everything.
 Well, we're similar.
 Me and Danny are aligned on a lot of our views.
 We are into very similar things, football, et cetera.
 And it all happened.
 Danny just dropped me an email one day.
 He's like, yeah, you basically made your production shit.
 Can I do it for you?
 Yeah.
 In as many words.
 And I was like, all right, you do the next show.
 And he's done every show since.
 And but he now he doesn't even do that job.
 He runs the show.
 He's the gatekeeper to guests.
 He picks a direction.
 I manage the partners and I do the business side, but Danny will eventually do the business
 side as I.
 It does feel like Danny's almost already running the business right now.
 Yeah.
 He needs to come and run Bedford with me.
 Pete's trying.
 Yeah.
 But mine is a weird thing because I have a central vision and everything is about everything
 I do now is focused on will that get me one step closer to get in Bedford in the football
 league.
 I don't care if Bitcoin doesn't go up for ball or not.
 That is my goal.
 One goal I have in life is to get Bedford in the football league.
 And if I can do that, I will definitely die a happy man.
 Is that your biggest career goal now?
 It's always been.
 Dad, what dad?
 How old do you think I was when I first said I wanted to buy Bedford?
 What do you remember?
 It's been in my head since I've been a teenager.
 And I never knew how I could do it.
 And then figured it out, like had that little brainwave recently.
 I was like, hold on, I know a lot of rich fucking people.
 Let's get behind this.
 And then also there's that trade off that it's the perfect team because it's a shit
 nothing team in the middle of nowhere.
 So you get a whole journey for now.
 Feels like an underdog story a bit like Bitcoin is an underdog story.
 And just we can attract a global fan base of Bitcoiners go, yeah, this is our team.
 We'll adopt it.
 But we had to be the first.
 There's no second Bitcoin team.
 There's only one Bitcoin team.
 And so we had to be the first.
 And once I realized it's like we had to do it and I'm not in it for the money.
 I'm losing personally money on it because I put money into it.
 The equity I hold in it, I will, my expectation is over the years, I will sell that off to
 buy this infrastructure we need.
 But it will come back in time.
 If you're doing something that you're really passionate, you've heard of the concept of
 Ikigai.
 Yeah, of course.
 That's Travis King's funds.
 Yeah.
 And if you're lucky enough to find your Ikigai, then there's nothing more empowering.
 I feel like a fan, man.
 It sounds like you found yours.
 So everything else, the universe will bend to make it work once you found it.
 I think I'm lucky enough to have found it.
 And then I'm surrounded by really good people helping.
 Like my dad's here.
 He's running the kit.
 My sister comes up to all the games.
 She runs the merch down behind the bar.
 Emma, like everyone is getting behind it.
 Like so many people want this to work.
 And it is working.
 And we've got nine ticks to do.
 You will work.
 It will work.
 Well, the first few ticks are easier.
 We will get progressively much harder.
 It's going to be really hard, but it will work.
 Yeah.
 There was just certain stages I'm going to need a billionaire to go, "I'm so fucking
 rich.
 Here's 2 million, go and get promoted."
 Then you'll make it happen.
 Yeah, I'll do my best.
 You'll make it happen.
 I can just tell you, once you found it, you will move heaven and earth to make it happen.
 It won't be me.
 It won't be because of me.
 It won't happen.
 Like I'll put everything into it or a lack of work, but we'll see, man.
 Anyway, listen, we're not here to talk about me.
 We're here to talk about you.
 Talk about Feddy Min.
 Okay.
 A lot of this, we're going to rehash what we did last time, but that's okay.
 Certain things need revisiting.
 You're getting talked about a lot.
 People are very excited about what you're doing.
 People I know and trust love what you're doing, but I still have some questions nagging at
 me.
 We're going to revisit them.
 I know it must be fucking boring for you to do it, but let's do it because I know some
 listeners have the same questions.
 But TL;DR, explain to people what Feddy and Feddy Mint is because there's two separate
 components.
 Explain the mission.
 The mission, what Feddy is, and what Feddy Mint is.
 I'll start with the mission because that derives everything else.
 The mission for Feddy is to empower communities everywhere.
 The way we see it is that we want to find a way for communities to be able to take control
 of their resources, including their money and their data, so that they can effectively
 take control back from big tech and so on, and bring it back into the hands of the community.
 As a result, if we can do this and repeat and repeat and repeat for communities, whether
 they be families, whether they be companies, whether they be villages or towns, in millions
 of places eventually around the world, we can help level up humanity.
 That's the mission.
 How do we do that?
 Well, first of all, you start with Feddy as a company.
 Feddy is the first manufacturer or builder of a federated OS.
 We don't think this exists, so this is a new category or thing.
 You can think of it like an iOS for your mobile phone.
 It's the thing that makes your mobile phone work, and it manages your personal life, or
 an Android OS.
 But a federated OS is an OS for your community.
 Of course, that includes custody.
 It includes being able to use different features or services and so on.
 But also, it goes beyond that.
 You could be able to use data as well.
 It can integrate with many other services over time, Nostar, even AI systems.
 Why should it be run by big tech?
 Why don't communities have their own AI, et cetera?
 So this is the grand vision.
 Now, how is that possible?
 How are we able to have such a broad vision?
 Because there was this technology that was invented.
 The idea came about three years ago, and the first line of code was written over two years
 ago called FedEmint.
 It was invented by one of my two co-founders, Eric Sirian.
 And this is a form of community Bitcoin protocol.
 It allows you to take Bitcoin, which you would normally run for one person, and run it for
 a community.
 With this platform, you have a number of people within the community.
 We call them guardians, trusted members of the community, who run this platform on behalf
 of the community.
 It allows you to have baked in by default automatically a level of scalability beyond
 Bitcoin and Lightning.
 It gives you a level of privacy using a protocol called Charmy and eCash.
 And it gives you, and this is a key element as well, a level of extensibility.
 So you can extend it with additional features.
 Basically, it's unlimited in what you can do.
 So it's the missing piece of the Bitcoin ecosystem.
 With this, you can think of it as the shield for Bitcoin, Lightning as the sword, and Bitcoin
 as its base, as the defender.
 It allows you to effectively do whatever you want to do to be able to scale resources and
 data for your community and for Bitcoin.
 There's a lot there.
 - Yeah, no, there is.
 So Feddy Mint is the protocol, Feddy is a company.
 Could other people create their own companies and compete with you and create products?
 - Yeah, absolutely.
 And we hope to see that happens.
 As I say, Lightning is a protocol and there are many companies making Lightning services
 and products.
 And we will see those.
 Now the way we deal with that is proof of work.
 So we have an incredible team.
 We have an incredible set of supporters from within the Bitcoin ecosystem, from within
 the investor ecosystem, but also many of our customers as well come from broad swathes
 of the world, whether it be, we have what we call hyper communities, which are Bitcoiners
 who are passionate about Bitcoin, but also passionate about parts of the world, whether
 it be Bitcoin Acaci in South Africa, or Bitcoin Lake in Guatemala, and so on.
 - Bitcoin Bedford.
 - Or Bitcoin, when you're ready.
 - We're ready.
 I literally just-
 - You ready for Feddy?
 - I was like, hold on, should we have a Bedford Federation?
 What can we do with this?
 - Yeah, are you ready for Feddy?
 Then we're ready for you.
 - All right, well, listen, go on, go on, go on, you finish.
 - But it's also beyond that.
 It's people who don't really think about Bitcoin or money in this sort of day to day, but they
 have to deal with it because of the challenges they're dealing with.
 So people who are trying to help raise or highlight the plight of people living under
 the yoke of oppressive regimes or dictatorships around the world, and everything in between.
 Also we're seeing it in terms of organizations who want to take personal custody of their
 treasury and not have to give it to third parties and large multinational organizations
 and say, well, why do we give it to multiple banks who we are increasingly less comfortable
 custodying with when we can hold it ourselves?
 Or our data, why do we have to give it to big tech when we as an organization can bring
 it back in and manage it ourselves?
 If we can help with all of that, there's interest there.
 - So let's run through an example use case, because that's going to be the best way for
 me to explain them what the challenges I see or the things I've struggled with.
 And then we can work through that.
 So talk to me about specific use case of any federation that you think could set up, give
 me a scenario and how it would work and the reason they would want it.
 - So there's many examples we've already, so for a number of months, we've already been
 in closed beta with different organizations.
 I can give you one example, a community of farmers and farmers cooperatives in West Africa
 and a number of countries, five or six farmer cooperatives, a hundred to 200 different farms.
 And obviously there's a farmers and all the employees, et cetera.
 Now right now they have to buy pesticides and fertilizer and they buy it at retail.
 It's incredibly expensive, so they don't buy enough and they don't get good crop yields.
 And so they earn less money for their land.
 Now if there was a way for them to access credit at reasonable rates, they would be
 able to hold, take on money by, and also if they could organize as a community and buy
 in bulk, they can buy at bulk, get wholesale rates, buy more pesticide and fertilizer,
 massively increasing their production and leveling up their society.
 Now what can be done with that is we can set up a federation for that community of different
 farmers, farmers cooperatives and farmers.
 People can then send capital directly to the different farmers.
 Farmers can use the Feddy app because the Feddy app includes chat and communication
 to organize with each other, one, like a group per cooperative, send value directly within
 this federation when it's ready to, when they're ready to make a bulk order and then organize
 for that bulk order and then pay the suppliers in bulk.
 Now instead of having to move around and transfer lots of cash between different parties and
 it's taking a lot of time, a lot of hassle, a lot of communication, this can be done easily
 in seconds.
 Now you could say, well, why didn't I use digital cash?
 But then I'll be paying potentially fees anywhere from 2% to as high as 30, 40% of
 transaction.
 30, 40%.
 For very small amounts.
 It can be as high because there's a minimum fee and sometimes it's with minimums, it could
 be as high as 30, 40% for e-cash.
 But that must be like, for digital cash, that must be like $1, $2 purchase.
 Yes.
 But even the average is two or 3%.
 Whereas when you're sending, but there's still a significant for a significant percentage
 when you compare to fractions of a percent.
 So and that's effectively, it still takes value away, which can be used for productive
 goods.
 So all these different cooperatives send their money into the Federation and then they negotiate
 with the-
 No.
 So the different cooperatives would be part of the Federation.
 The different farmers would be part of the Federation.
 So instead of them having their own wallet, because remember, they could be talking about
 small amounts of money each, a few hundred dollars maybe of each worth of capital per
 farmer.
 Now let's say the alternatives is hundreds of farmers that would they buy a hardware
 wallet for 50 to a hundred dollars each.
 So then, and they'll have to understand how to use it.
 It has to be very simple.
 Again, it has to be converted to their language.
 There has to be all of these things that need to be done.
 With the system we have, it will be multilingual.
 It will be able to be set up to work and act in the way that they need it for their service
 without any extraneous elements because each community is set up correctly for that community.
 They'll be paying near zero fees for transferring.
 And they, by the use of the Fediment, it's effectively a multi-sig wallet.
 So when it comes to first party custody, the best way to back up is first party with multi-sig.
 That's complex to do, but if you have a Fediment, you automatically get that for your community.
 So you're getting this multi-sig backup of the data without you having to do anything.
 You have this incredibly simple experience, but a best practice way of backing up as well.
 What was that?
 Because I'm connected to the screen.
 So every farmer would be.
 in the Federation?
 - Every farmer would be in a Federation.
 - Would they be, are there groups?
 Like, do they join like a cooperative
 and they're cooperatives?
 Or is it just every farmer across all cooperatives
 are in there?
 - Every community can set themselves up
 the way they want to be set up.
 But in this particular example,
 you would imagine that there'll be say five cooperatives
 and each one would set up a group.
 Just like you have a WhatsApp chat
 and there's different groups.
 There'll be a group for a cooperative
 and the farmers who are part of that cooperative
 will join that cooperative.
 And they would talk in that group.
 And then when it comes time to pay,
 they would send the value needed to make a payment.
 So they would use it to organize,
 the Feddy app to organize and to handle payments.
 - Okay, so you, me and Danny,
 we're all different cooperatives.
 We, somebody on behalf of us is negotiating the rates
 for the fertilizer.
 - Yeah, or each cooperative would probably negotiate
 the rates for the fertilizer as a cooperative.
 - Okay.
 - And there's 50 and you, me and Danny
 could be three different farmers
 who are part of one of those cooperatives.
 - I get it, I get it.
 - And then we would join the group within the chat
 related to our cooperative.
 We'll talk and agree that we want to buy this fertilizer,
 bulk buy it.
 And when it comes time to pay,
 we would just literally click a button and pay
 as opposed to having to transfer cash around,
 having to organize, having to have village town halls
 and so on.
 It can all be organized digitally,
 the conversation, the payment and the disbursement and so on.
 - And when we pay, do we pay into a central pot
 that goes out or do we all pay individually
 to the recipient?
 - You would pay into, you would pay in that case,
 a central pot and then it will go out
 so that you can bulk pay.
 So that's one example.
 - Sorry, one more question on that.
 And the person we're paying,
 that we're buying the fertilizer from,
 do they also have to be in the federation
 or can we buy outside of the federation?
 - They can accept,
 anyone who can set the lightning payment
 or Bitcoin on-chain payment can be the recipient
 of the money.
 Or alternatively, if you could find someone locally
 who's willing to accept the Bitcoin,
 like a local entrepreneur or so on,
 to set the Bitcoin and then on behalf of you,
 give you cash to pay at the point of payment as well.
 - Okay, so that all makes sense.
 I get that.
 - And that's one example.
 - Yeah, and I'm sure that there's lots of ones
 and that coordination is super useful
 and that coordination helps people
 actually negotiate better rates.
 I get that.
 And if it saves a 3%, that's really good.
 I mean, I guess like as a technology,
 the user experience, you can solve very quickly.
 There's still volatility risk on the price.
 You know, I could argue that the 3% fee
 is the price you pay to not have volatility.
 I mean, volatility can go to the upside and to the downside.
 There's still gonna be a challenge.
 You know, so if people used Fedian,
 they were gonna save their 3% and coordinate them,
 then Bitcoin did one of its dumps by 10%.
 That's a tough situation for someone to go through.
 - Very.
 So there are many solutions there.
 First of all, FediMint is multi-asset capable.
 So it's full reserve in the way it works by default.
 So you would deposit Bitcoin
 and you'd be credited a certain amount of Bitcoin
 within the system, within this wallet.
 - The e-cash.
 - The e-cash, yeah.
 And that can be used within the community.
 However, if you were to deposit a stable coin,
 then you'll be credited
 with a certain amount of stable coin instead.
 So that's possible as well.
 Third, we can show this later on,
 but it's extensible.
 And this is really key.
 You can, anybody of the millions of,
 not the tens of thousands of people
 who can build smart contracts on multiple chains,
 but of the millions of people
 who can write software for web too,
 they can very easily convert
 and write extensions for a given FediMint
 to be able to allow it to do pretty much anything
 that you could imagine could be done on a website,
 could be done on a FediMint.
 - Amazing.
 - But in a federated manner
 where you're not trusting one organization,
 one website, one person,
 as long as the majority honest, it continues to run.
 So you could take that concept.
 And there was an idea that was initially put forward
 by Taj Dreijer, one of the co-founders of Lightning,
 discrete lock contracts with difference.
 And technically with a few upgrades to Bitcoin,
 it could be possible to do it on Lightning easily,
 but they haven't yet been done
 and they hopefully will happen in time.
 However, that limitation isn't there with FediMint.
 So we did a hackathon at the beginning of this year
 and one of the submissions, which went on to win,
 created something called Stability Pools,
 which is a way to basically take Bitcoin
 and you could effectively think about it
 as depositing it into this virtual USD,
 or for example, or some other assets,
 this USD store account until you need it
 and then you can withdraw.
 So you receive payment in Bitcoin,
 but then you can just quickly just deposit it
 and it will be locked to that.
 It will still be stability locked to that value,
 USD to Euro, so on.
 So what could happen is you receive payment,
 you lock it to USD until you need it,
 and then you unlock it back to Bitcoin.
 It flips things on its head.
 Bitcoin is used for payments
 and Lightning is used for payments
 'cause it's available everywhere.
 It's one standard that everybody knows.
 It's near instant, it's very low cost.
 And then you use a stability pool
 to take your Bitcoin and lock its value.
 It's still Bitcoin all the way through.
 There's no bank backing it.
 But instead of its price being volatile
 and the amount being constant while you lock it,
 the amount is volatile and the price is constant
 until you need it and you unlock it.
 'Cause you're just, for you, you're okay with that
 because you just want the price stability
 with some other asset that you want it to be stable against.
 And then you unlock it and then spend.
 You also can partially unlock.
 So say I receive salary or wage
 or money from a friend or family,
 and I immediately lock it.
 And then when I need to spend,
 I want to spend $5 of it, I unlock $5 of it
 and it gets withdrawn out.
 And in fact, we can show a-
 - Just before we do that, can I ask you a question?
 If we had the federation set up between the three of us
 in that cooperative example,
 so we all put Bitcoin in and get
 what Bitcoin did cooperative e-cash.
 To buy off the fertilizer supplier,
 do they have to accept the e-cash
 or do they peg out to Bitcoin?
 - They don't have to accept the e-cash.
 - So they can receive payment in Bitcoin from our-
 - Yeah, that's it.
 So when, think about a fediment
 as a community owned lightning wallet.
 So from the outside world, it's a lightning wallet
 and it can make payments over the lightning network.
 It's just that the fediment protocol
 and the e-cash protocol handles how the Bitcoin
 that's been sent to that wallet
 is apportioned amongst the members of that wallet.
 And also it handles ability people to be able to say,
 I want to spend.
 And then what will happen is that e-cash
 is transferred to someone else within the,
 it can work in two different ways.
 It can be sent back to the guardians
 and they can destroy it
 and send out a certain amount of Bitcoin on chain
 for equivalent to the amount.
 Or for lightning transaction,
 what technically happens is it's sent internally
 to someone else who also is running a lightning node.
 And then that person, after receiving that,
 sends out a certain amount of lightning
 over the lightning network to the address you sent.
 So this is what lightning service providers do,
 but normally it's lightning connection on one side
 and lightning connection on the other side.
 Here it's e-cash on this side and lightning on the other side
 but from your point of view,
 experientially it just looks like a lightning payment.
 Whether you're sending it to someone else
 within the fediment
 or whether you're sending it to someone else
 on the other side of the world,
 who's got a moon wallet or a wallet of Satoshi
 or a blue wallet or what have you,
 or to someone else who's also in another fediment
 somewhere else, do you lightning invoice pay?
 - So if we were transacting within the federation--
 - It would still be a lightning invoice.
 - It's still lightning,
 it's not like a e-cash token swap kind of thing.
 It's still--
 - So what the protocol cleverly does
 is it recognizes internal and it just does an e-cash swap.
 But from your experiential point of view,
 you just pay the lightning invoice.
 - And for internal--
 - It would just never fail because it's internal.
 There's no liquidity issues there.
 And also it would be basically almost,
 probably just free or 0.11 milli Satoshi
 or something like that.
 Maybe a tiny fraction of a penny.
 - This show is brought to you by Leden.
 From savings accounts to personal loans and even mortgages,
 Leden's financial services enable Bitcoiners
 to experience the benefits of holding today
 without selling their Bitcoin.
 Leden has a robust risk management strategy
 which always prioritizes safeguarding clients' assets
 with no DeFi yield farming.
 And Leden only supports Bitcoin and USDC,
 two of the highest quality
 and most liquid assets in the industry.
 They also are dedicated to transparency
 and are the first digital asset lending company
 to complete a proof of reserves attestation
 which they re-verify every six months.
 With multilingual support on standby 24/7,
 Leden is there to support all your needs.
 To find out more, please head over to leden.io
 which is L-E-D-N dot I-O.
 Also today we have Ledger.
 Now Ledger is the world leader in Bitcoin security
 and is the best way to own and secure your private keys.
 If you're still holding Bitcoin on an exchange
 or with a custodian,
 it might be the time to take your security more seriously.
 Remember, not your keys, not your Bitcoin.
 Now Ledger hardware wallets paired with the Ledger Live app
 are the easiest and safest way
 to start managing your own private keys.
 You can send and sign your Bitcoin transaction
 with full transparency in the Ledger Live app.
 And honestly, look, it could not be easier.
 I have been a Ledger user since 2017.
 I love their products
 and I'm still using the same hardware device
 I bought back then.
 Now if you want to find out more
 or purchase a hardware wallet from Ledger,
 then please head over to shop.ledger.com
 which is S-H-O-P dot L-E-D-G-E-R dot com.
 Next up we have Iris Energy.
 Now Iris Energy is the largest NASDAQ listed Bitcoin miner
 using 100% renewable energy.
 Their strategy is to target markets
 with low cost, excess renewable energy.
 And they build out their own
 highly efficient Bitcoin data centers.
 They are led by a seasoned management team
 with a track record of success across renewables,
 infrastructure and digital assets.
 Now Danny and I met the team recently in Canada
 and we're super impressed with their values
 which align with us.
 So they are a great fit for what Bitcoin did
 and you the listeners.
 Now we are going to be working with the Iris Energy team
 on everything we do from podcasts to films and live events.
 And they are even sponsoring my football team, Real Bedford.
 I'm really, really happy to be working
 with such a forward thinking and sustainable Bitcoin company.
 But if you want to find out more about them,
 please head over to irisenergy.co
 which is I-R-I-S-E-N-E-R-G-Y.CO.
 - Okay, so which video do you want me to pull up first?
 - So I think actually,
 do you have a Lightning wallet on you?
 - I've got a few.
 Let's just go with wallet Satoshi
 'cause that's what I set up for my Nostra recently.
 - So if you give me a receipt on your wallet Satoshi for,
 I always like it for 21 sets if that's okay.
 - Yeah man.
 - Good first number.
 - Right.
 - So a request to receive 21 sets.
 And I will with my,
 so I'm a member of a federation,
 call it Mainnet One.
 And I've got some sets on it, like 17,000 sets.
 And I will now,
 so I'm going to click send
 and then I will allow camera access.
 I'm going to scan your transaction and I click send.
 And now.
 - Yeah, just received it.
 - And I just sent.
 Now what happened there is,
 I'm part of this federation
 and there are multiple members of this federation.
 It's cryptographically near perfectly private.
 So I have no idea how many.
 I know because it's our internal worries,
 but it could be,
 there could be any number
 because the Charmin eCash protocol
 means that it's not possible to know.
 But I actually sent eCash to someone else in that network
 who is running a Lightning Node.
 And then they, after receiving that eCash
 of a certain amount of sets, 21 sets,
 they then sent on 21 sets to you over the Lightning Network.
 - They didn't know it happened.
 - So what happens is,
 so the FedEmit protocol is, I say extensible.
 And it comes with, just like with iOS,
 it comes with some standard apps.
 With the federated OS, it comes with free standard apps.
 One is Bitcoin multi-sig.
 So it can handle and deal with the Bitcoin network
 in a multi-sig manner.
 Another one is eCash.
 So it can handle and create and destroy eCash
 in an automated manner.
 And the third one that we have as standard
 is Lightning emulation.
 So that anybody who's a member of this
 thinks it's connected to the Lightning Network,
 but it's the Lightning Network
 that causes zero seconds to form a transaction,
 zero seconds to close a channel,
 and therefore if it's zero,
 and it costs zero to form a channel
 and costs zero to close the channel.
 So as such, I can just form the channel and send it to you
 because I don't have to wait 10 minutes
 and it doesn't cost money.
 So I can just instantly create the Lightning channel.
 So when you're connecting to a core Lightning or LND,
 it just thinks this is just a really fast,
 really low cost Lightning channel to route across.
 And it just magically routes the transaction
 over the Lightning Network.
 - And that 21 sats you just sent me,
 did that destroy some eCash?
 - No, because in that case, as I said,
 someone else in the Lightning,
 someone else in the FedE Mint was running Lightning nodes.
 So I just sent eCash to them.
 And they, so the eCash has just moved around
 from me to someone else.
 And they also had 21 sats on a Lightning channel
 and they've sent that on.
 So their balance is up 21 sats on eCash,
 but they're down 21 sats in Lightning Bitcoin effectively.
 So imagine they had--
 - But that federation has a certain amount
 of Bitcoin deposited into it.
 But that federation is now down 21 sats.
 - No, in that scenario,
 let's say there was only 21 sats in the entire federation.
 - Yeah.
 - And there was, ignoring the four guardians or more,
 there was myself and someone else
 who's got a Lightning node and me.
 And they have zero sats and I have 21 sats
 in terms of eCash.
 But they also have a Lightning node
 with 21 sats worth of capacity in it to be able to send.
 - Yeah.
 - I now pay you and you're on the Lightning network.
 So I locate this other person, connect to them.
 I send them the 21 sats.
 So there's still 21 sats within eCash.
 - Yeah.
 - But I have zero of them and they have 21 of them.
 And then they take the 21 sats that they had
 in the Lightning network and send it on to you.
 So they now have zero capacity on their Lightning channel,
 but they have 21 sats.
 So the number of sats within the--
 - Hold on, are their sats on their Lightning channel
 outside of the Federation?
 - Yes, the Lightning channel is outside of Federation, yes.
 - But using that scenario, I've been like,
 well, I wanted those sats.
 - You as the Lightning node operator.
 - Let's imagine you're the Federation.
 You're in the Federation, you've got a Lightning node
 with some sats on it.
 I'm in the Federation, I've got the eCash.
 And then he's outside of the Federation.
 So the Federation has been created with 21 sats in it.
 and have a great day.
 And so I want to send eCash to Danny.
 - Yeah.
 - But I actually really want to send 21 sats.
 So I send the eCash, it goes to you.
 So the 21 sats that I have within the Federation go to you.
 Your 21 sats that are in your separate Lightning wallet
 go to Danny.
 - Yeah.
 - Okay, so the 21 sats has moved around the Federation.
 - From one person to another.
 - From one person to another.
 - Yeah.
 - But you've lost your 21 sats of, it's a swap.
 - It's exactly what happens
 with the Lightning Network right now.
 If there's a payment between myself and Danny
 on the Lightning Network, ignoring Ferdinand,
 and you're the Lightning node that we use to relay it,
 we have channel, my channel has 21 sats of capacity
 and you have 21 sats of capacity to Danny.
 At the end, I send you 21 sats.
 I now have zero and you have 21.
 And he has zero, you have zero on his channel and he has 21.
 - I'm trying to balance the books here though.
 So you've gained 21 sats of eCash?
 - Yes.
 - And lost 21 sats in your separate Lightning wallet.
 - Correct.
 - Yeah.
 - But what you would have done in reality
 is gained 22 sats of eCash
 'cause you would have charged a fee
 just like every other person on the Lightning Network
 and lost 21 sats.
 So you're up one sat.
 - Where did that additional sat come from?
 - It's the fee, just like the way the Lightning Network was.
 - But where did it come from?
 Because our--
 - Oh, in the example I said it was 21 sats total.
 So I would have been able to send 20, say.
 - 20.
 - 'Cause you would have said
 there would have been a fee of one sat to do it.
 - Okay, so you would have sent 21 to me.
 But I--
 - But including minus the fee, yeah.
 - Yeah, minus the fee.
 - The example should have been 22 sats I had
 and I wanted to send 21.
 So I would have, you said it was one sat to do this.
 So I would send you 22 and you send on 21.
 - What if no one within our federation
 has any sats separately in a Lightning Channel?
 - Then you won't be able to use the Lightning Network.
 Which is what--
 - You wouldn't be able to convert the e-cash into that.
 - So yeah, FediMint are an island
 without the Bitcoin extensibility
 or without the Lightning extensibility.
 Bitcoin, if you send it on-chain, in that scenario,
 you would send it back to the federated Mint,
 which would be the guardians
 and they would receive the 21 sats, destroy them.
 And then on-chain, Bitcoin on-chain,
 they would send Bitcoin.
 But if it's Lightning,
 then the guardians don't get involved.
 They don't even see it.
 - Yeah, no, no.
 - They don't get that.
 - Basically it gets sent to someone else.
 But if there's no one within the FediMint
 who is running a Lightning node at all,
 then it doesn't have access to the Lightning Network.
 Which is why we always say FediMint and Lightning
 work hand in hand.
 FediMint is the home for your money
 and resources and data.
 And Lightning is the way to transfer
 your resources and money.
 Whereas something like Nostra
 is a way to transfer your information.
 But this is the place where it's the home
 for your communities.
 - And so when we set up our federation
 and between us, say you, me and Danny create a federation,
 we all put one Bitcoin in, that creates the e-cash.
 Do we give our e-cash a name?
 Do we call it Pete, Danny?
 - Do you give the e-cash a name
 or do you give the federation a name?
 - What I'm saying is when it appears on screen.
 - It's all Bitcoin.
 It will just see it as Bitcoin.
 Just like with Lightning.
 Lightning is technically slightly different properties
 to base layer Lightning, base layer Bitcoin,
 but we just call it all Bitcoin.
 - So it's all Bitcoin, so it's still Sats.
 - It will still be shown as Sats.
 - So why do we say e-cash?
 E-cash threw me, e-cash made me.
 - You still be seeing it as Sats.
 - The e-cash thing threw me because it was,
 in my head I was like, tell me if I'm wrong here,
 but I was given the impression
 that you're creating a new currency within the federation.
 - Yeah, that you kind of like,
 I remember that one analogy was,
 it's like someone taking tickets at the fair
 and you get like, you put your Bitcoin in
 and get a ticket for this like new-
 - Yeah, but again, it's just a difference of perspective
 where people get bogged down into the detail.
 But if I go to a fairground and I get tickets
 for different tokens for CLDs on rides,
 so I give them $50 and I get given-
 - 10 tickets.
 - 50 tickets each worth a dollar.
 And I walk around and they say the ride,
 they don't say the ride is worth 10 tickets,
 they say the ride is $10 and you still get them 10.
 - No, no, no, no, you go to place
 and they'll say it's five tickets.
 - Sometimes, yeah.
 - No, I think the confusion in that is,
 if you're right, that's the confusion gone.
 But in my mind, it was like, okay,
 we set up this federation, we each put 10 Bitcoin in,
 but in our system, you get the denominations difference.
 You get 100 e-cash of this and you get 100.
 Like I had this impression there was a different currency
 with a different denomination.
 - So I think denomination is separate to the currency itself
 'cause I mean, 10 Bitcoin can be 10 Bitcoin
 or it can be a billion sats, it's still 10 Bitcoin.
 - But I'm saying it's always-
 - Yeah, they're different denominations.
 - It's not like we go in there and you get,
 okay, so for your 10 Bitcoin, you get a thousand OB coin.
 - No, it'll still be Bitcoin, yeah.
 - And it's exactly, aha.
 - Yeah, it'll still be Bitcoin, yeah.
 - I would totally got a different impression.
 - Yeah, I did too 'cause I remember when we spoke
 to Eric Yakes as well, he was saying that like merchants
 would have to choose to accept different types of e-cash
 and then if there's hundreds of federations
 and that becomes really confusing.
 So that kind of threw me a bit.
 - I think if you're not a member of a federation,
 then you can't use that e-cash.
 So it has to be converted to Bitcoin,
 lightning Bitcoin to go over the lightning network
 or main chain Bitcoin to be using the main chain.
 But it's just like lightning Bitcoin to use on main chain,
 you have to convert it.
 You have to publish a transaction
 and then it has to be memorized on the blockchain.
 - Okay, so this is better because essentially
 what you're getting is you're trading your Bitcoin and sats
 for a representation of Bitcoin and sats in the system,
 which you can move around between yourselves
 like free and easily without using the network.
 It's like a closed.
 - But without the network, it loses a lot of its power,
 which is why they work hand in hand.
 - Yeah, but within the network, if I send you
 and then you send to Danny, it's a closed part.
 It's almost like a-
 - It's like the intranet.
 - It's like liquid.
 - Yeah, but it's sort of one, one for the entire world.
 We're talking about eventually 1 million.
 - Yeah.
 - So that you have, it's like a side chain,
 but a million side chains.
 And because there's a trust dynamic
 where you have to trust the guardians,
 'cause the problem with any scaling solution
 is there's a natural desire for it to centralize.
 Having run an exchange, I realized that you can see
 liquidity begets liquidity.
 You naturally want to centralize.
 So if you go to a third party,
 you will end up with one huge exchange.
 And that's why you have that,
 you see that right now with Binance, et cetera.
 But because there's a trust dynamic,
 because you need to know and trust the guardians,
 it never goes above a certain size.
 So if you want to scale, you have to form another,
 there's a natural incentive to form another federation,
 another federation, another federation.
 So you end up with this world where
 there are hundreds of thousands of millions of communities,
 each one able to have that superpower
 that normally is resigned to the big tech
 and large exchanges, but in the hands of the community
 where they can then choose
 and they can make the same decisions
 that normally they've abdicated to someone else who,
 often if it's a curly haired guy in the Bermuda,
 it doesn't end well.
 - No, I think I get it now.
 So like previously, I thought you were basically,
 almost like you're handing me some Bitcoin.
 I was going, here's my P coin
 and here's your denomination of it.
 And this is how much you've got.
 But actually what's happening,
 it's a little bit more like Liquid.
 When you go into Liquid, you get LBTC.
 It's a one for one peg, essentially.
 And when you peg in,
 and then when you peg out, you get the same.
 It's essentially the same,
 but what you've really got is federations.
 They can form bridges to each other across the world.
 So each one is a federation,
 but if there's a lightning connection,
 these federations can bridge to each other.
 - And there's a massive incentive to have a lightning.
 - That changes everything.
 - Yeah, there's a massive.
 So it's like, and by the way,
 Blockstream was the first person to see the genius
 of the idea of Eric, my co-founder.
 And they'd sponsored it for, I think,
 well over a year before I even heard of the protocol.
 So yes, there are a lot of similarities with the,
 that is a federation as well.
 Liquid is a federation.
 - But it's a closed one.
 - Yeah, but it's a federation as well,
 but it's one federation for every use case
 for the liquid network.
 You can imagine each FedEment is like a mini liquid
 in that sense.
 And there are also,
 each one can have different functionality.
 The way the functionality works in FedEment,
 it uses Charmian e-cash
 as opposed to confidential transactions.
 And it's fully extensible.
 So you could add any application
 that you could in theory run on,
 applications of a web server
 could in theory run on a FedEment.
 So each community can take charge.
 - I'm gonna give you a really terrible analogy.
 I'm gonna say that Liquid is China
 and FedEment is the USA, whereas each federation,
 my point being is,
 Liquid is a closed federation.
 You're in or you're out.
 And when you're in, you can share it there.
 Whereas you're like States.
 So like in America, you have separate States,
 which you can move between, you're like separate States.
 And as long as there's a bridge or a motorway
 or an airport between the two,
 you can travel between the federations.
 - I would say that's a Liquid a disservice
 because there's no technical reason why.
 And I believe people already do
 where you could not have some sort of a bridge
 between Liquid and Bitcoin main chain
 or Liquid and the Lightning Network as well.
 I guess that with FedEment, it's just all baked in a standard
 so that you get it automatically.
 You know that every, it's just like when I say
 you get the Android app or you get your Windows PC
 or your Mac OS and you know there are like several apps
 a standard and you're always gonna have e-cash
 and you're always gonna have Bitcoin
 and you're always gonna have, and also really key,
 and it really makes it work.
 You're always gonna have this Lightning integration
 because think about it, if you're a Lightning Node operator,
 you have to, if I have a thousand different users,
 I want to, I have to, the first thing
 they're gonna wanna do is receive Bitcoin.
 Before they spend, they have to receive.
 So the way the Lightning Network works,
 I, if I connect to you to be able to provide you service
 and I wanted, my revenue stream is to earn fees from you.
 But the first thing I have to do is I have to lock up
 some Bitcoin in a channel for you to receive it
 in order for you to spend it.
 - Yeah. - Yeah.
 If even if you're getting it from family abroad or so on,
 I have to lock up.
 So I open up a channel with you and you have no money.
 So I have to lock up Bitcoin to you.
 And so let's say you wanna,
 you've got a thousand different users in a village
 and you know, average salary is,
 it could be like $10 a day, maybe less.
 But you think, okay, what's the reason about to lock up?
 Let's say $100 worth.
 Well, for a thousand people,
 I'm now locking up $100,000 for a thousand,
 sorry, $10,000, no, $100,000 for a thousand different people
 just in case they may need a deposit.
 And so there's a lot of capital locked up.
 And then some of them may use it, some of them may not,
 but I have to lock it up just in case.
 Otherwise they try to do deposits.
 And if I've under guessed, I've only locked up $5
 and then I need 10,
 I'm gonna have to do a second on-chain transaction
 'cause each one of those costs me money as well.
 Now, if I've got, compare that to a FedEmit,
 I need to open up one channel for the entire village
 and I lock up an amount,
 which I think is the average amount
 that I'm gonna need on a daily basis,
 which will be a small fraction of that.
 I might be, I only need to lock up a thousand or $2,000
 to cover the entire village.
 And if I go over that,
 I only need to do one top-up transaction.
 So I get much, much higher capital efficiency
 for the same revenue.
 And actually my costs go even lower
 because I'm doing far less on-chain transactions
 for the same revenue.
 So I make lower costs.
 My admin cost goes down as well
 'cause it's easier for me to manage.
 My channel rebalancing and predicting is less
 because to open up a channel on this side,
 on the FedEmit side, is zero costs and it takes zero seconds.
 So I can always do it just in time at no cost.
 So this is why you see a lot of interest
 in Lightning service providers to work with us
 because we increase their revenues,
 reduce their costs, reduce their efforts,
 which makes them more profitable,
 which means more capacity on the Lightning network.
 I had a four-hour conversation in Oslo Free Informant
 with Rene Picard.
 - I love Rene.
 - And he's a great guy.
 And one of his concerns was fee incentives.
 And he said, "Look, if we get broad-based deployment
 "of FedEmits around the world,
 "this could go, potentially it can go some way
 "towards solving the fee challenges of scaling Lightning."
 And when I heard that,
 this was something I wasn't even thinking about at the time.
 It just made so much, even more sense than it made before.
 - Yeah, but there's also another,
 there's an alternate risk there in that
 if you get broad, massive use of FedEmits,
 are you taking away on-chain transactions
 that provide the security once the block rewards have gone?
 - I don't think so, because you'll still need
 at some point the, again--
 - To settle.
 - You'll still need to settle.
 At some point, you will potentially build up
 a balance of e-cash.
 And to be able to spend that or hold that in self-custody
 or balance between different federations
 or between different channels,
 you will have to withdraw that,
 and that will require the destruction of that e-cash
 and an on-chain transaction.
 - The e-cash--
 - It'll just be at a larger amounts.
 And even if the fees are higher, it's fine,
 because you're now running this as a business
 and you're making profits, so you can cover the fee,
 because you may have made $200 in fees,
 so you're happy to pay $50 on transactions.
 - Obi, I think the e-cash thing throws me,
 the word e-cash throws me, and I don't think--
 - That we shouldn't use it in this conversation.
 - Well, no, but when I say that, if it's throwing me,
 I think it might throw other people,
 because in the idea, it's making me think
 there's another currency I'm getting.
 That's what it's making me think.
 Tell me if I'm wrong, or you think--
 - No, no, I think I was the same.
 - Yeah, I feel like I'm going in and getting something else,
 but really I'm not, I'm just getting Bitcoin,
 but you're using e-cash to refer to the fact
 it's like a virtual Bitcoin.
 It's not actual Bitcoin.
 - It's still Bitcoin, but with different properties.
 Different properties, different trust dynamics,
 but different features.
 Some functionalities are increased, some are reduced.
 - Why do you use the term e-cash, then?
 Why don't you just say you get Bitcoin?
 - This is the technical term for what it is,
 and so this is where I think,
 as we now move to the point to promote this globally,
 we are developing new language that just is just--
 - Do you know what I'm gonna do?
 - More comfortable for just everybody to understand,
 but when you're talking to a technical community,
 e-cash is the correct term.
 - No, I get that, and so I'm gonna be,
 do you know what I'm gonna do?
 It's like anyone listening or watching on YouTube,
 just throw in the comments,
 just, "He's never done this before,"
 but tell me if the e-cash thing threw you.
 Either I'm a moron or I'm on my own,
 well, not on my own, 'cause Danny's with me.
 Either we're morons or everyone else is confused by it.
 I just wanna know, and I'll send you all the comments
 so you can see.
 - I really appreciate it.
 - That's a huge fundamental shift in me understanding it,
 because, like I say, I was under the impression,
 you set up a federation, people have been in Bitcoin,
 and you're basically creating your own currency.
 It's a bit like when banks,
 the free banks that we covered with Matthew earlier,
 You deposited gold and they gave you notes, but those notes were.
 were dollars.
 They're not-- they weren't grams of--
 those notes weren't grams of gold.
 They were dollars.
 They were representation.
 But this isn't-- you're just getting
 sats and Bitcoin within it.
 Within a closed system, yes.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah.
 OK, wow.
 That's a big change.
 They're different, but just to be for the sake of--
 because there'll be people who will be shaking at the screen.
 There are different-- and it's the same between Lightning
 and Bitcoin.
 It's still sats, but there are different trade-offs
 and trust assumptions being made.
 And the same happens again when you go to a Fedi Mint.
 I'm cool with that.
 OK, now we need to see it.
 OK.
 So which one did you want to see?
 I think-- so I just sent you a transaction.
 So do you want to--
 I think what would be interesting to see--
 and we can show you this at another time--
 is this is what, say, the Fedi app looks like.
 But before we do that, we have to understand
 you first set up a federation.
 So a group of people, Bedford FC--
 Rail Bedford.
 Rail Bedford.
 Sorry, Rail Bedford.
 Apologies.
 The auction room.
 Yeah, the auction room.
 Bedford the town.
 We set one up in the town.
 So Rail Bedford.
 Rail Bedford wants to set up its own Fedi Mint.
 And you've got these people.
 You work together.
 You trust each other.
 You already trust them right now.
 If people were going to--
 could right now throw a game, your defenders
 and your goalkeeper could throw a game and earn money from that.
 But they don't.
 But why do you-- how do you trust that they don't?
 Because--
 Well, there's no--
 if we were in the football league,
 that's a different story.
 But imagine in the football league.
 Yeah.
 Well, I think there's a criminal risk.
 But still, that's the risk with any--
 that's the same if you give the example of someone running off.
 There's always a criminal risk.
 But--
 They don't do it for two reasons, multiple reasons.
 One of the reasons they wouldn't do it
 is that their personal moral code doesn't want them to do that.
 Their second one is there's no incentive.
 The incentive isn't big enough.
 And the third one is there's a criminal risk.
 Yeah, so criminal risk--
 Which is then because--
 --moral code--
 --reputational.
 Let's say you get into--
 Reputational risk.
 Reputational risk, criminal risk,
 and you also mentioned that--
 but imagine also you're now in the sort of not Premier League,
 but you're getting there.
 Career risk.
 But you're now in the Premier League.
 There is a financial incentive there at that point.
 So really, it's moral risk and criminal risk.
 So you've just explained it.
 And that's the key.
 In a community where you care about the others
 and individuals, there is social capital
 to be lost by doing something like this.
 But SPF had moral and career risk,
 or moral and criminal risk, and took it.
 And now he's facing jail time.
 So there's a difference.
 When you're dealing with--
 he's dealing with strangers.
 There are people at the other side of a computer terminal
 that he doesn't know.
 He doesn't have a relationship with.
 And also, if he did something to,
 he can continue on with his life.
 Whereas if you're a part of a community,
 a close-knit community, you spent your life there,
 and then you do this, you can be ostracized from the community.
 You'll never be able to transact with anyone again.
 You'll never be able to work with anyone again.
 Imagine now, every time I want to buy something
 from anybody in that village or town--
 You might be in Panama with cocktails.
 Yes, but then you're dealing with amounts
 of which are very significant.
 But let's just say you're in a village or a community.
 You did this.
 Now, from now on, if I wanted to buy anything
 from anyone else in that community,
 I would always have to go somewhere else where
 my reputation hasn't been spread.
 There's a cost.
 There is a cost to do that when you
 have a second-party relationship, i.e.
 your friends and family, which isn't the same when you're
 dealing with a person in the other side of the world.
 Well, yeah, but there's always a trade-off, Obi.
 It will be the size of the honeypot
 and how far they have to go away to deal with that.
 Like, if it's a small honeypot--
 Which is why there's a natural limitation on how much it
 scales, which is why you end up with hundreds of thousands
 of ferdiments versus one large honeypot.
 No, no, I get that.
 Which is a very good thing.
 We want something that naturally wants to be distributed
 and has limitations on how much concentration can happen.
 That trust dynamic solves the natural desire for systems
 to build up and focus liquidity into one place.
 I think it's a non-zero--
 Sorry, I'm interrupting you.
 I think it's a non-zero risk, though.
 Of course, there's a non-zero risk.
 But there's also a non-zero risk that a lightning channel is
 not closed before someone else, a militia
 acts to close it.
 They're all non-zero risks.
 Let me try and think of a better example.
 A federation created in a family that's
 got 25 family members all keeping--
 like here in the UK, all keeping in because dad can't manage
 a multi-sig, my sister can't, my brother could.
 But so we'll just do one together.
 How many rogue family members just
 park off and steal the money?
 Because we could have a lot of money between us.
 So is the example you give my two members of family
 that you don't trust and you worry that--
 Maybe you do, but maybe they go rogue.
 What I'm saying is there's going to be a scenario where somebody
 is going to collude with somebody within a federation
 to say, we can steal this.
 I think there's a non-zero risk.
 And I think it would happen at some point.
 The incentive-- you'll get a meeting of incentive and--
 I think--
 Moral code.
 I think the same risk happens with--
 and it happens more frequently and the risk is higher--
 with highly centralized third parties who
 are strangers who have no connection with you at all.
 So replacing the risk of--
 I think you're reducing the risk,
 but not getting rid of it.
 You're reducing the risk.
 And that's what we're aiming to do.
 OK, that makes sense.
 But and to be very clear, the best
 is to use self-custody with multisig.
 Yeah, of course.
 That's the absolute best.
 And if you can do that, you should.
 But what happens with FreddyMint is
 we're giving communities the ability, the 90% who
 can't do that for reasons of technical complexity, cost,
 and just psychologically, because it's just
 frightening to do, a way to still have this best practice
 backup approach where it's of multisig,
 but with trade-offs applied for the community.
 Well, you know what, Obi?
 The thing-- it harks back to when I first--
 well, not first.
 I think second or third time I went down to El Salvador
 and I was in El Zonte.
 And you know what?
 Most people there are poor.
 And a lot of people--
 their houses are basically a shack, like tin sides.
 And it's a shack.
 And I was thinking, all right, this is great.
 They've got Bitcoin now, and I've got Bitcoin.
 But when I'm at home, I live in a house
 with bricks, with an alarm, and security cameras.
 And if I want to set up a multisig,
 I can distribute my wallets to friends, family, banks.
 I can put in some pretty hardcore security.
 These people don't leave El Zonte much at all.
 And where are they going to-- firstly,
 how are they going to get three treasures or three ledgers?
 Where are they going to distribute them,
 even in their own home?
 What are they going to do?
 Bury it in the mud under their bed?
 It's not set up.
 Multisig is great.
 Hardware wallet-based multisig is
 great for developed Western nations.
 And the developing world, it's no good.
 And so you've solved that problem, which I think is great.
 - Multisig is great, full stop.
 And what we've done is we've found a way
 of giving the other 90% access to the best practice.
 Because we shouldn't then give them a--
 we should try and give them as close to possible to that.
 Now, because currently, the alternative
 is if you can't do full multisig,
 then go off and give it to a complete stranger.
 And we're suggesting this alternative,
 that the community can come together
 to find the trusted members of the community.
 And then they can amortize the costs
 of this across the community.
 - I guess what I'm then thinking about, Dan,
 is who do I trust more?
 Do I trust Coinbase more than I trust the community?
 I think I trust Coinbase more on internal hacks.
 I trust the Federation more over regulatory and confiscation
 risk.
 There's different--
 - And I guess the question is, which risks
 are more of an issue for you?
 Maybe for you, you've come to the view
 that that risk is lower for you.
 But as I say, in parts of the world where we are--
 and different people have different perspectives on this,
 but we have a level of freedom and reasonableness
 to a degree, and there's different views on this,
 you may form one view.
 But there are parts of the world,
 and it's actually the majority of the world,
 where there is a lack of freedom and a lack of reasonableness.
 And then you'll come to a very different view,
 that the risk of confiscation is a clear and present risk.
 - It's a new option with different trade-offs.
 And at that point, they still deserve a solution.
 - Yeah, yeah, I get it.
 - And then also the risk you mentioned earlier,
 where there are certain bad actors
 and they can do certain things.
 Again, the way to solve that problem for bad actors
 is to give good actors tools that they
 can use to empower themselves to fight back
 or to provide an alternative.
 Because bad actors use the existing status quo as well
 to effectively control good actors.
 We provide a tool to bring that control
 back into the hands of the communities
 or organizations that we want to deal with.
 - Yeah, it definitely makes more sense now.
 - Yeah.
 - Do you think there'll always be community-sized federations
 or do you think you'll get company-sized ones
 where it might be like an Unchained, River,
 Swan, and Night Eagle setting up a federation?
 - I mean, I'm really excited to see
 what's going to come forward.
 But when you say company-sized,
 I think you'll see companies setting up federations
 for themselves.
 Because companies have employees,
 they have expense accounts, they have treasuries, and so on.
 And right now, they use multiple third parties
 to charge fees and so on.
 They could instead bring that in-house,
 if it's easy enough to manage, which we can show you,
 they can bring that in-house and manage it themselves
 and reduce their costs and increase their reporting
 when they want and the transfers can happen
 when they want it to happen, et cetera, et cetera,
 without having to wait for weekends
 and evenings and so on.
 - Yeah.
 I want to see it.
 - Yeah, let's see it.
 So the first thing is what you do
 is you set up a federation.
 - Cool.
 - And so--
 - We can share these videos out.
 Yeah, yeah, we'll put these videos in the video.
 - So this is a, so before you,
 if we go back to the beginning,
 and so on this screen, before we start,
 if we pause it, it shows four screens, just to be clear.
 And if you see, in the show notes,
 you can see afterwards, you'll see the address,
 the URL, the address of each one is a different machine.
 So it's just, we're showing them in one place
 to see what's happening.
 And so you can imagine, this is four different people
 downloaded a piece of software, the FedEvent software,
 our particular fork of it, FedEOS,
 but it's, so it has a nice interface,
 but it's basically the same as the open source protocol.
 And they would have run this application to load up
 and it displays this in the web browser of each one.
 And they're, and imagine that also communicating
 on something like Signal or WhatsApp or so on
 to just to talk with each other and just chat,
 some sort of chat interface.
 And that's it.
 So they've all loaded up and it says, let's get started.
 So you just zoom into one.
 First one called himself Alpha, second one Beta,
 second one Charlie, second one Delta,
 but it could be whatever.
 - That was it, that was quick.
 - That was it.
 - So where does--
 - And it's gonna get quicker.
 - Where does it get administered from?
 - This is the beauty of the protocol.
 It's a headless protocol.
 So there is no manager, the system manages itself.
 Each one, you all download the software,
 as long as the majority of you are running,
 then if there's one is a bad actor or one goes offline,
 let's say, then the system will keep running.
 It's like the operating of this,
 the guarding of this is equivalent
 to guarding a set-top box,
 i.e. or a Bitcoin node in the sense that if you turn it off,
 where's the administrator?
 You turn it on, it connects up,
 resyncs with the Bitcoin network and carries on going.
 This does the same.
 If one of those goes offline,
 the others will still service the Lightning requests
 and Bitcoin minting and destruction
 and EKS transaction requests seamlessly.
 And any other things, this is extensible.
 So you can add modules, which as I say,
 the stability pools, it could service those requests
 or password managers.
 If you want to, instead of holding my passwords
 with Google Drive, why don't I hold it within my community?
 Or my Nosta password,
 passwords are gonna become more and more.
 If I'm using Nosta and I lose my password,
 my private keys, then that's it.
 I have lost access to my Nosta.
 So I wanna be able to back that up.
 So do I back that up with Google Drive,
 which is a third party,
 or do I back it up with a number of trusted first parties?
 Any thing that I want to be able to take ownership of
 and not have to, and I don't feel comfortable
 completely doing it myself,
 and I don't want to give it to a third party,
 I could have the FedEvent run.
 But for the guardians, their job is just to guard this box.
 They just keep it fed and watered
 with electricity and internet,
 and that's all they've got to do.
 - Love it.
 Okay, so the next step would be--
 - So you've set up the federation.
 We skipped over a bit,
 'cause it will display a QR code for you.
 And that QR code would be, and I'll show you it here,
 but that QR code would be,
 actually let me put my phone on to do not stub.
 That QR code would look like something like this.
 - Okay. - And it would have
 displayed that.
 And so you download the app,
 and you would just scan that QR code,
 and that's it, that's the signup process.
 - That's it. - No email,
 no phone number. - Love it.
 - It's faster than signing,
 the same speed as it takes to share your details
 between two people on an instant messenger client.
 So it's even faster than signing up
 to an instant messenger client.
 - Okay, so say I sign up to the federation.
 I'm not a guardian.
 I sign up and I deposit some Bitcoin with it.
 I get my Bitcoin representation.
 Oh, we're going to do it.
 Okay. - No, you've signed up.
 I've signed you up already.
 - Great, so.
 - You're going to send me a request now.
 And now your experience is like a lightning wallet.
 - But currently I don't have any Bitcoin in there.
 - Yeah, so request.
 - But rather than request,
 say I wanted to deposit some Bitcoin in there.
 Okay. - Yeah.
 - So I go ahead and I deposit in there
 and I get my representation, my e-cash,
 dealt with that, but my representation in there.
 I lose my phone.
 - Yes, so this is where we'll show you a video.
 So actually, if you go to admin,
 if you click on admin at the bottom.
 - Admin, yeah.
 - So you will see two,
 and there'll be an option called backup.
 - Yeah, backup your wallet.
 - And there are two options.
 So one, just click on one, which is the bottom one,
 which is the normal one you expect,
 the 12 words, and you'll be shown 12 words.
 You record them down and fine.
 But here's one of the benefits.
 You're part of a community.
 You will also wanna be able to do an option.
 Before we'll go on to an option now,
 and I'll show it on the screen
 'cause it's really good for people to see.
 - Yeah.
 - So if we go to,
 you have the ability to do something called
 social backup and recovery.
 - This is interesting.
 - And let me show you on the screen.
 - Yeah, I wanna see that. - That's important.
 - And basically, it effectively allows you to do
 a backup of your private key.
 But instead of, if you think about the backup of your keys,
 you create the key and then you've got it.
 they go, well, who do I give it to?
 And so on.
 And also when I give it to them,
 how do I know that they don't go off and lose it
 or run off of it, go to the Bahamas, as you said.
 And also even if they're completely, I trust them.
 How do I know that when in 20 years
 I want to get it recovered, they didn't lose it
 or the cat ate it or so on,
 'cause they haven't been checking it.
 It needs to be constantly checked.
 So what we do is we have a way of automating
 of automatically taking your backup,
 encrypting it, splitting it up.
 And then luckily we already have a number
 of trusted members of the community
 who are there running software 24/7 in the background
 that can take a copy, a chunk of your backup
 and store it for you automatically.
 And because it's software,
 it can be constantly checking those backups
 to make sure that they aren't corrupted or damaged.
 And the moment one of them is,
 you can be alerted that second,
 not when you need it in 10 years time,
 because the software is doing the checking,
 not the humans, they're checking that it's fine.
 So you had to go in, in this example,
 and you'll click social backup.
 And then you just say the word FEDI and your name.
 And then you just confirm it looks like you
 and it sounds like you.
 Now in this background, what's happening is
 it's creating a very long password.
 That's very hard to guess.
 It's encrypting your password, your 12 words.
 It's then breaking it up,
 let's say your four guardians in that example
 into four chunks where you need at least three to recover.
 It's then taking your image
 and creating a hash of that image.
 So it's not the actual image,
 it's like a fingerprint of the image
 and using that to tag each one of those shards
 and then sending that hash tagged backup
 to each one of the guardians.
 So a lot of words to say,
 it's just done the best practice backup of your 12 words
 in two or three seconds.
 Now you're left with the video
 'cause they don't know who they're backing up for.
 You have that and you're left with the password.
 It combines that into a file called backup.FEDI.
 And then you can share it.
 You can share it to your Google drive.
 You can share it to your cell phone, WhatsApp.
 You can share it to multiple friends
 and you're encouraged to share it in multiple places
 because to recover that,
 the person would need to log back into your federation,
 know which federation is yours.
 And then if they lost their phone and recovered it,
 but then at the point of recovery,
 only at that point, the video is sent to the guardians
 because they need that video to locate the backup.
 And then they would check,
 is the person coming to me the same
 as the person with the video?
 - Do you have to refresh it every few years
 just in case you get a little bit older, grow your hair?
 - So it's a good practice to do that.
 And this is actually within the app.
 A certain extension that we want to add
 is this concept of a FEDI bot,
 which again, will be able to give you reminders
 of certain things that you should do.
 Also monitor things like your balance
 is above a certain amount.
 It will suggest maybe you should consider self custody now,
 for example, 'cause it makes sense for you.
 You're ready to take that graduation point, for example.
 - Like it, okay.
 So- - But it can still be used
 to help backup your private keys
 of your personal custody wallets as well.
 If you're having trouble finding people to do that to.
 - This show is brought to you by Wasabi,
 who I am using to keep my Bitcoin private.
 Now, Wasabi is the easiest way to send
 and receive Bitcoin privately.
 And even for non-technical people like me,
 it is effortless and provides privacy by default.
 Now with Wasabi, there is no minimum amount,
 so you can get started coin joining straight away.
 And Wasabi users make coin join transactions together
 with BTC Pay and Trezor users,
 and BTC Pay server users can make payments in coin join,
 which saves on fees and is a privacy improvement.
 Also, Wasabi have just dropped a new feature.
 Now, Trezor suite users can make coin joins directly
 on the hardware wallet, which is obviously very cool.
 Now, if you wanna find out more,
 please head over to wasabiwallet.io,
 which is W-A-S-A-B-I-W-A-L-L-E-T.IO.
 Also today we have BitCasino.
 Now, BitCasino was established in 2013
 and is the world's first licensed Bitcoin casino.
 It is trusted by tens of thousands of players worldwide,
 and not only do they have cutting edge security,
 but they offer fast withdrawals
 and VIP experiences that money can't buy.
 BitCasino also has over 2,800 games
 and tournaments to try out.
 And with 24/7 live chat support,
 you can always get the help you need.
 To find out more, please head over to bitcasino.io,
 the first Bitcoin casino to win an EGR award.
 That is bitcasino.io, which is B-I-T-C-A-S-I-N-O.IO.
 And please remember to gamble responsibly.
 Also today, we have Unchained.
 Now, if you've been listening to my show for a while,
 you'll know I'm a big fan of saving Bitcoin
 for the longterm.
 I'm a hodler, which is why I'm happy
 to recommend the Unchained IRA.
 Their Bitcoin IRA lets you control the keys
 to your tax advantaged Bitcoin.
 And if you have a Roth IRA,
 that means you don't pay capital gains
 on the price appreciation.
 Now, unfortunately, most IRA providers
 require that you give up control to your Bitcoin,
 but not with Unchained.
 Controlling your keys with the Unchained IRA
 protects you from exchange hacks or frozen accounts.
 And Unchained is an all-in-one solution.
 They'll help you establish a traditional or Roth IRA,
 set up your cold storage vault,
 roll over your existing 401k or IRA.
 And if you want one-on-one guidance,
 their concierge team will send you devices
 and walk you through setting up
 and securing your keys at your own pace.
 If you want to set up your IRA today,
 head over to unchained.com/whatbitcoindid
 or schedule a complimentary consultation to learn more.
 That is unchained.com/whatbitcoindid,
 which is U-N-C-H-A-I-N-E-D.com/whatbitcoindid.
 And if you want to get $50 off,
 please use the promo code whatbitcoindid at the checkout.
 - So you, me, Danny, Papa Smurf over there,
 we set up a federation.
 Emma comes in, she creates her app.
 She deposits her Bitcoin.
 She does the social proof.
 Yep, and she's the social backup.
 That distributes that amongst us four.
 - And then she needs to recover.
 - She needs to recover, but night before,
 night before me and Danny go out for a few drinks,
 get in a fight, get killed.
 We're both dead.
 How does it recover when we're gone?
 The two people--
 - They would have to get dead,
 and then your computers would also have to turn off.
 The FeddyMint server is a piece of software,
 it's a set-top box.
 It's like you dying and your set-top box--
 - But we're not checking the video against the video
 to say that was that person.
 - Yeah.
 - So in that scenario where we're gone,
 the two people left cannot recover that person.
 - In that scenario, yes, yeah.
 - Okay.
 - If you both got, if you both,
 so they would, you would have to have a coincidence
 of both of you dying and the person
 at the same day losing their keys, yeah.
 - Yeah, so we can't travel.
 - But that's the same, but that's, well,
 but that's a number of,
 that's a number of coincidences.
 - No, no, but on purpose, I'm trying to break it.
 - But it's the same if you had your backup with,
 you gave your backup to someone
 and their house burnt down on the same day you lost your key.
 It's like, it's the same, that could also happen.
 Or there was a flood in the vault,
 with the bank vault at the same day that you lost your key,
 then you would also have the same problem.
 - So I'm three of five on mine.
 So.
 - Yeah, but it's, you would,
 if you had three people go at the same day as you.
 - Yeah, it's just a different risk model.
 It's three versus two.
 It's two of four versus three of five.
 - Three of, well, it's two of,
 in a case of three or four,
 but you could also set up five of seven.
 - Yeah, yeah, yeah.
 - And set up seven of 10.
 - Yeah, okay.
 - So I think the minimum we suggest is three or four.
 - Yeah.
 - 'Cause that protects you from one person
 being a bad actor or losing access for a period of time.
 Five or seven protects you against two.
 - Yeah, great.
 - But yeah.
 So.
 - Very cool.
 - So we created, we backed up.
 - And if it came to recover,
 you would, if you check on recovery,
 what would simply happen would be that you would go in,
 find the file, download the app again,
 'cause you'd lost your phone, it's a new phone.
 And double click on the file, it will open up the file,
 recognize it as a .FedE extension,
 so it knows it's part of FedE.
 So you'll join the Federation again,
 again, scanning a QR code.
 Click recover, find that file,
 open it up in your file system,
 and it will load it and it will say,
 here's a QR code, get three of the,
 in this example, three of the four guardians to scan it,
 and you've got your Bitcoin back.
 So you just have to get them to scan that.
 They can, if they're not in the same town,
 you can do it over a WhatsApp call
 or a Hangouts call or a Zoom.
 If they're in person, you can do that personally,
 but they will always see you,
 and at the point they scan it,
 only at that point is the video sent,
 and they will say,
 "Is this person the same as this video?"
 - Tyler or Cameron Winklevoss could steal their,
 each other's Bitcoin.
 Have you got twin protection?
 - Twin protection. - Identical.
 - Well, I guess again, this is the advantage of it being
 with your friends and family,
 'cause friends and family can recognize difference
 between twins, hopefully.
 Twins can fall out though.
 I don't know. - No, but the point,
 the point is though, that friends and family have,
 know them well enough to work out who's who.
 If you've got friends who are twins
 and you've known them a while, you know,
 but someone who's on the other side of the world,
 who's in the West Coast of America
 in some big tech company,
 who's underpaid and overworked
 to try and figure out who it is,
 versus three or four people
 who've known you all their life.
 I'm gonna bet on the three or four people
 who know you all their life
 to determine the difference between the two twins.
 - We've got twins in play for Ralph Bedford,
 James and Rob Bucket, and I still can't tell them apart.
 - Well, but give it a few more years.
 - I can't. - There's always an evil twin.
 - I keep tweeting out the wrong ones
 when they score goals and shit.
 I keep getting it wrong.
 Okay, I get it. - That's embarrassing.
 - I get it, so you, no, you, I'm telling you.
 - It's embarrassing.
 - Yeah, it is, because these two are identical.
 Okay, I get it.
 So what we're really talking about with all of this
 are just different trust models.
 Everything is just a different trust model.
 We've got a trust model, no, we've got a capability
 and a trust model relating to storing your Bitcoin,
 whether it's exchange versus single hard wire wallet
 versus multi-sig versus FedE.
 It is just another thing, another option.
 - It's a different trust model, but I think there's a,
 look, we, it's part of a bigger story though.
 So ultimately, if you can, you should self-custody.
 That is the absolute Bitcoin standard.
 - And you're an encouraging that with this anyway.
 - I believe that that's the best possible scenario,
 but being pragmatic, I think you're gonna get
 to maybe 10% of the people of the world
 being able to do that.
 We're about getting the 90% away from complete trust
 of big tech companies, big companies
 who don't have your interests at heart
 and taking that control into the hands of communities.
 And that is where we see the comparison
 as opposed to the comparison against the Bitcoin standard,
 the gold slash Bitcoin standard of self-custody.
 This is about, and when you're ready,
 when you've built up enough experience, knowledge
 and capital, you should self-custody.
 - I want a federation.
 - Let's do it.
 - I think we should have a what Bitcoin did federation.
 - When would it actually be available?
 - So we are going to be, well, in May now,
 we have-
 - Hold on, are you launching at Miami?
 - No comment.
 But we are going to have a,
 it's actually available already for a number of months,
 but in closed launch with a number of communities
 in LATAM, in Africa and other parts of the world.
 We've just been, we've already been getting feedback
 and adjusting the product.
 But in May, we are announcing that we're having
 what we're calling our silent running launch.
 'Cause I like my sci-fi.
 And this is a launch for the product
 which you can download and use,
 but it's targeted at builders
 because we real powerful here, this is an OS.
 And imagine your iPhone without a suite of apps
 or things that you can do to fit your personal requirements.
 This is a federated OS for communities.
 Communities around the world will have different needs.
 If you're a company, you'll have a certain set of needs.
 In New York, if you're a village in Venezuela,
 you have a different set of needs.
 If you're a large family in Nigeria,
 you have a different set of needs.
 And so they need a suite of different services
 to meet those needs.
 Whether it's community savings and loan schemes
 or whether it's the stability pools
 or whether it's password managers
 or whether it's federated NOSTA relays
 or whatever it may be.
 There are many things that could be extended
 and run on top of this.
 And so that's what the launch we're focused on.
 It's not designed for consumers,
 although if you're an enthusiast,
 I'm sure there's gonna be a lot of enthusiasts
 who wanna download the trial.
 I'm sure that's gonna happen.
 But we're gonna be focusing on builders.
 And then later on in the year,
 we'll do the, once we have a suite of really exciting
 30 minute modules, we call them,
 that are available and ready to rock and roll,
 that's when you launch.
 - Could you at the Miami conference,
 create a federation for the conference
 that everyone goes and joins,
 and then they deposit their Bitcoin in
 and then use that for buying everything
 while they're at the conference?
 - That's a great idea.
 - Could that be done?
 - That's a great idea.
 No comment.
 - What date are we releasing the show?
 - I think May 12th, if that works.
 - It's a, you've got some very good ideas.
 I'll leave it at that.
 - It makes sense though, doesn't it?
 - It makes a lot of sense.
 - Yeah, it makes sense.
 I would do that.
 That's what I would do.
 - Yeah, I think that concept is cool,
 like the temporary federation.
 And I think it's quite exciting.
 Imagine festivals.
 - Yeah, it's exactly what I was thinking.
 - Imagine concerts, imagine conferences,
 imagine all these sort of things.
 It's as opposed to these apps that you download,
 never use again and forget about,
 you can mass orange pill,
 that'd be really cool idea, great thought.
 - Just give me a board seat.
 Okay, cool.
 Right, what have we not covered?
 - There's loads of things.
 - Important things that we've not covered.
 - So one, let's just take chat.
 - Yep.
 - That's the next.
 So you, in the Feddy app,
 'cause this is a home for your money, chat and data.
 So we have chat within the app.
 So instead of your chat being hosted
 by a third party somewhere in the world,
 in one location, like a signal or a telegram or a WhatsApp,
 where you don't know for sure what's happening.
 And even if they're doing everything perfectly correct,
 there's always a suspicion.
 You've seen the news around Binance and CZ
 and the signal information that was shared, for example.
 Each chat is able to run within the federation.
 So each community has its own private chat server
 for the community.
 And when you're talking to people within your community,
 direct to that, it's an encrypted conversation.
 So you know that it's encrypted between the two of you.
 And you also know it's being served
 by the community for the community.
 Now, within the chat though,
 you are able to, because it's within this community,
 you're able to make payments while you talk.
 You can send conversations.
 You can also send e-cash.
 You can fling e-cash from one person.
 to another. So if you see in this example, we are having a conversation with someone
 and then they send you a request to pay them and you just click pay. So instead of me scanning
 as QR code, I just click pay and it's just sent eCash directly. And then the other way
 around, no, I've sent you a bit too much. I click the wallet icon on the left and instead
 of me sending QR code, I just send them how I want and I can cancel it before they click
 pay. But if they click pay, it will say pending transfers the eCash directly between the two
 of us. So when I'm now sending money, if I've got family back in the diaspora who are part
 of my community and me, instead of me figuring out multiple things, we just all join the
 same federation. And if I want to send my money home, for example, I would just say,
 okay, here's your money for the day, pay and it just sent.
 Or say I'm at a conference, I've got an event on, you're like, do you want to come? If you
 got a ticket? Yeah, it's like a million sats, boom, here's a million sats, here's your ticket.
 Yeah, or you join or you pay for the conference and you go and you join and you download this
 QR code. So again, you just download the app and scan a QR code at the entrance. And that's
 the signing process. No email, no anything. You can now have different subgroups in chat
 for different discussions can happen. You can have on the homepage, there's a series
 of apps being displayed. And each one of those apps is dependent on the, each one of those
 apps is configurable by community. So this is an example set, we've got things like Bitrefill
 and Giza and Stackwork and Stack and Use and BTC Maps. But for you, it could be the show
 guide and it could be the program guide and it could be whatever makes sense for your
 community. And, and also you can then make payments. And guess what? What happens if
 I want to go into singal? What happens if your conferences, it's a concert, and there's
 like 10,000 people and it's just no cell reception or it's underground for part of it. So you
 lose connection. Can we go into offline sending? So e-cash is a bearer instrument. And this
 is one of its things. It's, it works the way you normally naturally expected cryptocurrency
 to work, but it doesn't. After a while you realize that cryptocurrency doesn't work like
 that. It's a one shared ledger. But when I have e-cash in my phone, I literally have
 a different file effectively, simplified version, a different file for each coin of cash I have.
 So if I have no internet, it can recognize that. And we can do this right now. I have
 no internet, no wifi, no SMS. I can just, instead it will realize, recognize that and
 it will create, it will only work if you're both in the same federation. But if you were
 in the same federation already, and I have, and I saw this when I was in El Salvador,
 I had Bitcoin, but I had no, I had no signal on my SIM card. And there was someone I wanted
 to buy some pupusas from. I had the money and they were right in front of me and I couldn't
 pay them because we had no internet. With e-cash, I could still go in offline mode and
 literally have an animated QR code of the different e-cash notes. And they, as long
 as they have their camera, I can beam through the sky, through the air effectively without
 Bluetooth or anything, the payment.
 That's very cool. How does it work if there's no connection? Like how does it work?
 So what's happening is that you're not actually sending information off the internet. You're
 sending it through the QR code. So the QR code, think about it, the tokens in the scenario
 of the fairgrounds.
 Yeah.
 Each one of those is a bearer instrument. Each one of those is cash in a way you consider
 cash. So when you receive e-cash onto your phone, on your phone is a separate file for
 every note.
 So how does that get from your phone to my phone?
 So if you saw in the video again, that is a QR code is a visual representation of information.
 Yeah.
 So-
 Are we looking at the offline receive now?
 Yeah. So on the offline send, I was creating an animated QR code.
 Yeah, I saw that.
 But on the offline receive, if you look at the bottom, it's showing 60%, 70%, 80%. So
 if you replay it again, so you can notice at the bottom, there's this sort of a count
 up of the percentage of the e-cash that you've received. So at the bottom of the screen,
 you'll see again. And once you start scanning it, at the bottom, it's going 20, 30, 80,
 70, 70, 80, 100%.
 But does my-
 And what will happen is as this animation is playing, each frame of the animation is
 the unique code of a different piece of e-cash. Now, even though I have no internet, because
 I know, we both know the federation we're part of, the federation, the way the e-cash
 protocol works is every e-cash note issued is stamped by the Federation of Guardians
 with their public, they use their private key to sign it effectively. They sign each
 one so that you know that it's, even though I have no internet, I know, because I know
 what the details of the federation is, I know that if I receive this note, this is a valid
 note because only the guardians could have signed it. And therefore, even without internet,
 I can receive it and go, okay, this is valid. I'll accept it.
 But because there's no connection, when a connection comes back, is there a syncing
 process?
 Yes. So there is a syncing process when the connection comes back, but this is where the
 community aspect works as well. So there's two things. The bearer instrument allows you
 to send it through as QR code. But then the fact that you have this sort of community
 trust model means that, for example, you would say, what would happen if someone tries to
 double spend, send it to two different places? First of all, they'll have to take the code,
 recompile it and change it and modify it. So you're in this village and you're starting
 to recompile this application to do something completely different, which is unlikely. But
 let's say you did do that. You would then have the challenge that upon syncing, that
 it will be clear that you double spent two different people. And again, you have the
 risk then of being ostracized by the community. And therefore, from then on, you'll never
 be able to transact with anyone in the community again for that $2 transaction, which again,
 if you're doing it to someone on the other side of the world, then that's a real risk.
 But when you're doing it with people you're transacting with daily, that risk becomes
 much smaller because the punishment is much higher than the crime. So this is the power
 of working within communities of trust. That combined with the properties of e-cash allow
 you to send value in this mechanism in this way.
 Okay, so my conference ends. Does everyone have to withdraw to close down that temporary
 federation? And if you don't withdraw and the federation gets closed down, do you lose
 your Bitcoin?
 Well, you don't lose it. The federation retains it in that scenario. But so the Bitcoin is
 not lost, but you would lose access to it. Yes. So if you were doing something like a
 conference, you would say you would keep it open for one or two weeks afterwards. And
 you would use that opportunity to say, hey, after the end of this, and you would say at
 the point of depositing, it's similar as if you go to some music conference, concerts,
 you get tokens and you say, if you don't use them, then they go back to the organizer.
 And it's the same. You'd put in, you buy a $50 ticket, say, and you get $20 worth of
 e-cash to get going immediately as part of that ticket. And you can obviously deposit
 more, but you make it very clear that by depositing, if you don't withdraw it by this point, two
 weeks afterwards, it goes. But obviously, you can use that period of the two weeks afterwards
 to make them aware of other ways. And they can set up a lightning wallet themselves to
 self-custody, or they could come talk to Feddy and we can help their community set up their
 own, if they liked what they saw here, the power of this approach. Why don't you set
 up your own community and we'll help you set it up there. But whether it's us or whether
 it's Moon or Satoshi or so on, you've just given people mass visibility on the power
 of Bitcoin and lightning and so on. So you're going to have some percentage of those people,
 even if they came for a football conference or so on, they just realized this experience
 is just way better. And that's what we're going for. We're going for just where people
 having their most enjoyable experience in their life, festivals and so on. That's where
 you're going to build them because this becomes a much better alternative. One tool where
 I can have conversation, I can organize, I can talk to other people, I can share connections,
 people I meet while I'm passing by. I can pay for food and hot dogs and water and drinks
 and memorabilia. I can also have show guides and so on because of the fact that it's extensible.
 And then for the next two weeks afterwards, I can be told or suggested ways in which you
 can continue the experience. Now that you've understood firsthand the power of Bitcoin
 and lightning.
 I'm thinking like, we've got our event next Friday. Next year we're going to turn it into
 a one, maybe two day conference. And I'm already thinking, okay, we would have our federation
 for the conference. In there, there would be the running order of events. There will
 be incremental things you want to buy. You want to buy a ticket to the dinner on the
 Friday call, you can do it within the app. When you go to the merch stand, you can buy
 stuff. You meet someone, you want to buy something from them, you can tap chat, you can organize
 little side events.
 - I'm sure you won't be the first one to do it by then.
 - No, but that's fine. It'll be proof tested.
 - Yeah, it'll definitely be proof tested.
 - That's super cool. So can I put my own fees into the transfers within it?
 - Technically, there's nothing stopping that with the FedEment protocol, but with the FedE app,
 no. Structurally, we don't do it for our system.
 - And that's because you would have issues with regulatory bodies.
 - I think it makes the experience much simpler for users. And also, at least at this stage,
 it focuses on who would adopt it. If there's no profit motive, you tend to get people who
 are doing it for non-profit motive-focused reasons.
 - Casinos. So when you go to the casino, you have to go to the stand, you have to convert
 it, and then when you've cashed out, they give you the ticket, you go back and convert
 it, you could just stay entirely within the app.
 - I think there's multiple use cases. So that's another very powerful use case.
 - Okay, how do you guys make money?
 - So there are multiple ways in which we can make money. For FedE, the core way we plan
 to make money is the FedE app. That's when people download the app, they don't have to,
 just like they don't have to use any given Lightning app. But our app is a pay-as-you-use
 model. So we will charge, whenever you do any form of transaction, we'll charge an additional
 small amount on top, a few basis points.
 - Nice.
 - And obviously we use that to improve the product and service. But the other thing we
 do, which is core part of this OS, this operation, is the human part of this. So we recently
 just closed a Series A round.
 - Congratulations.
 - Thank you very much for that. And a big part of that is to bring Bitcoin, Lightning
 adoption global. And obviously we think FedE is a powerful engine for mass Bitcoin adoption
 and accelerated rate. But what we realize is you need humans on the ground who understand
 the local context to make that happen. So we'll be over the coming years hiring hundreds
 of FedE Knights, as we call them, to locate, educate, and inculcate communities and organizations
 around the world. But we're looking at having, we're effectively the outsource business development
 arm for the entire Bitcoin ecosystem. So, because as you said, the thing with FedE is
 it's very powerful, but it's an island without other things. It needs to run on servers.
 So it'll need umbrellas, start lines, voltages, and so on. It needs to connect to the Lightning
 network. So it needs to partner with people like Voltage and Ibex, Mercado, and Bolsa
 Server and all the other companies who provide Lightning LSP services. And then for every
 given community, they have specific requirements. So integrations with Bitrefill, with StackWork,
 if you want to earn money and so on. But all of these things are in the Bitcoin and Lightning
 ecosystem right now, and as a whole already are incredibly powerful. But you want one
 place to bring it all together, and then one engine to bring that out to the world. And
 that's what we do. We bring it all together here, and we bring out the world with this
 workforce of people who make me look, the idea is they're going to make me look like
 I'm comatose. They're like, they're going to just want to promote and make people aware
 of what's possible with Bitcoin Lightning, Feddy, Feddy Mint, and the Bitcoin ecosystem.
 So inherent in our models that we win by ensuring the entire ecosystem wins.
 It's growing on me.
 You Feddy-pilled.
 I think a little bit. Now I can see the use cases. That e-cash thing was a massive...
 Yeah, this cleared loads up for me too.
 Yeah, cleared up loads for me. Obi, what do you want to tell people? Where do they go?
 How do they find out more? What's going to happen now? Where do we go with this? When
 can I set up a celebration?
 So yeah, there's lots there. So first of all, you should go, if you find out more about
 us, you should go to Feddy.xyz. That's the good starting point. And you'll see about
 the mission, what we're trying to do. About me, I'm always on Twitter at Obi, O-B-I. And
 you can find out what I'm doing. Where do we go next? We just raised, we are looking
 to hire. So on our site, you're going to see a number of roles that we're looking to. And
 we're looking to just find people who are not mercenaries, missionaries. It's really
 core that this is something that they are really passionate about.
 And beyond that, you're going to see us a lot at various conferences throughout the
 year. If you see us come up, talk to us, and we'll figure out ways of partnering with your
 company if you're in the space and you want us to integrate it within our product, or
 you want to join the team, or you want to use a service, we're all here for you.
 Very, very cool. Appreciate coming in, Obi.
 No problem.
 I'm excited to see the comments on this. All right, man, listen, best of luck. We're
 always here for you. We're friends. Anything you need, give us a shout. I look forward
 to Miami.
 Thank you very much.
 All right, come on. Tell me what you think. What do you think of Feddy? What do you think
 of Feddy Mint? I'm definitely closer than I was last time, but I'm still not 100% convinced.
 I don't know. Maybe it's just me, but let me know what you think. Drop me an email at
 hello@whatbitcoindid.com. I spent some time with Kali. I saw his implementation of eCash.
 Now I spent some time with Obi, and I think I know where they're going with this, but
 just not there 100% yet. Anyway, listen, let me know what you think. I will see you all
 soon.
 [Music]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
