 *claps*
 *thud*
 Sup freaks, it's your boy Marty here to introduce this rip of TFTC
 Sat down with Obi
 From the Fedi Team
 What'd you think, Logan? Do you have any thoughts?
 Very nice voice, voice of God
 There's nothing, nothing like a nice
 British accent
 The content was great too, the voice was great, the content was great, it's all great
 It's all great, according to Logan, the shit corner, in the corner
 Shit cornering in the corner over there
 I stabbed somebody
 Don't do that
 The um
 This episode was recorded
 Before we posted the last episode
 That you should have listened to already, so we don't have boost to read right now, that's what I'm trying to get at
 If you're supporting the show, via podcasting 2.0, thank you
 Next boost
 Stop calling me a shit corner
 Logan, Logan took offense to
 The boost from
 Stop it
 From one of the episodes
 If he gets that defensive, you know something's wrong
 Um
 Just got a text from my wife reading it, like a
 All good, all good at home too
 Find yourself, find yourself a good wife, freaks
 Very important, it's good to have
 Somebody supporting you in the background
 It's not really in the background, part of your life
 I'm just rambling, usually your words are flowing like a river
 I got the text
 Had to digest
 Like a river
 Oh, like a river, look at that
 Like a river, Marcy
 Look at that segue, do you just want to do the ad read?
 You can't do it
 River, it's a great bitcoin company, created by bitcoiners
 For bitcoiners
 They build all their infrastructure, they don't have any trust with third parties
 You can DCA for free, without having to pay fees on the app
 Most importantly, what we're here to talk about today is their mining
 Still on the block clock here, if you're watching
 The average fees per block over the last 2016 blocks is
 1.18893 bitcoin
 That's a lot of fees, fee revenue is up
 It's a great time to be mining
 I have ASICs plugged in
 They're producing double the revenue they were this time last week
 It's a beautiful thing, River makes it very easy to mine
 Whether you're an individual or somebody who wants to buy a lot of miners
 And mine at a bigger scale
 River is here for you, they have a white glove service
 They can acquire ASICs for you
 They have hosting facilities where you can get plugged in
 If you wanted to buy a miner and have it hashing
 And delivering block rewards to your River account tomorrow
 They have them ready to go, some are already live
 It's a white glove service
 We talk a lot about SAT streams here
 Buying SATs, converting your cutbucks for SATs
 It's one way to acquire bitcoin, but once you get bored of that
 It's like, how do I create more SAT streams?
 Mining is a great way to do that
 So go to river.com/tftc, check out their mining
 page, river.com/mining
 Get set up today
 This group is also brought to you by good friends at Unchained
 They're right down the hall from me here at the Bitcoin Commons
 In Austin, Texas
 Did you hear that?
 It was a big S there
 I whistled a little bit
 We're in Texas
 Siblings
 Unchained is here, and they're here to help you eliminate single points of failure
 In your custody model with their vault product
 Again, this is a bitcoin company, buy bitcoiners, for bitcoiners
 Another one, they're leveraging bitcoin's native multisig properties
 To build the financial company of the future
 On a bitcoin standard
 They have the vault, they have the lending desk
 You use bitcoin as collateral
 It's got US dollar liquidity, and you hold a key in the wallet
 That your bitcoin is escrowed in throughout the duration of the loan
 So you know that your collateral isn't being rehypothecated
 It's a beautiful thing
 If you have an IRA, and you want to transition it into bitcoin
 Into a wallet where you control the keys
 Unchained has that as well
 And then, probably most importantly, you've got to get bitcoin first
 They have their trading desk
 You want to buy large amounts of bitcoin, smaller amounts of bitcoin
 And you don't want to worry about moving it to cold storage
 You set up a vault, you go to Unchained's trading desk
 You buy bitcoin, and it goes straight to your 2 or 3 multisig vault
 Which you control
 It's a beautiful thing
 Go to unchained.com
 Check all this out, hit up their concierge team
 They'll walk you through everything
 Beautiful team, beautiful people
 A lot of hot people in this office, on this floor
 You talk about that a lot, in these ad reads
 Beautiful people, you know, people like associating with beautiful people
 You know?
 That's what people do with crowd health too
 Beautiful, healthy community of people
 Ditching the health insurance industry
 Which is notoriously expensive, opaque, and impersonal
 Crowd health is a different way to take care of your health care bills
 It's not health insurance
 You pay a monthly fee, that builds up into health account
 If you ever have the need to go to a doctor, you have a medical bill
 You give it to crowd health, they negotiate the price lower for you
 And then the bill gets paid out in cash
 You pay the first $500, and the rest gets crowd funded by the crowd health community
 And 100% of bills paid to date
 Can't guarantee, but the model's working
 Incentives are aligned
 Take sovereignty over your health care, it's cheaper
 I was on Cobra before, crowd health
 It's much cheaper, looks like you need it
 It's a much better experience, yeah, I'm gonna go
 To the doctor after this
 Go to joincrowdhealth.com/tftc, sign up today
 This group is also brought to you by our good friends at Bitcoin Talent Co
 A Bitcoin recruiting firm built by Bitcoiners
 Everybody's, the crowd health guys are Bitcoiners too
 They have a Bitcoin community, but like
 All these companies are built by Bitcoiners, for Bitcoiners
 With Bitcoin Talent Co, it's a recruiting firm
 Trying to get the best talent in the world into the Bitcoin space
 So if you're a Bitcoin company looking to hire
 Get connected with the Bitcoin Talent Co team
 Go to bitcointalent.co, tell them that TFTC sent you
 Get onboarded, they'll understand your needs, your company
 And again, they're Bitcoiners, so they know
 What to go look for on the talent side of things
 Speaking of the talent side of things
 If you're in tech, finance, banking
 You're a Bitcoiner who feels like they're on an island
 And wants to break into the Bitcoin industry
 You should get set up with Bitcoin Talent Co as well
 Get your resume there, tell them what you're looking for
 They'll have the relationships with the companies in the space
 On the back end to find the perfect spot for you
 Hopefully it's a good mix
 We also have an internship program going this summer
 So if you're a company in the space looking to get an intern
 Hit up Bitcoin Talent Co
 We've got a large list of individuals from around the world
 Who are looking to contribute to companies
 Young people, smart people, beautiful people
 So go hit them up, tell them that TFTC sent you
 And enjoy this rip with Obi Nasu
 You've had a dynamic where money's become freer than free
 We talk about a Fed just gone nuts
 All the central banks going nuts
 So it's all acting like safe haven
 I believe that in a world where central bankers
 Are tripping over themselves to devalue their currency
 Bitcoin wins, in the world of fiat currencies
 Bitcoin is the victor
 I mean that's part of the bold case for Bitcoin
 If you're not paying attention, you probably should be
 Yeah, Austin's not like other cities too
 Where it's not like a walkable city per se
 Unless you're like downtown
 Downtown is sort of semi-walkable
 I've been trying to walk around
 Have you gotten on the trail yet?
 The trail, I'm not sure
 Around the river, have you walked around the river?
 I've walked along the river a bit
 I've walked along the river
 I'm actually staying near the river so I can see it
 Yeah
 That was really nice
 And I went up to this bit where you can see the city
 A few of the guys took me there
 We did a little bit of like a mini free sort of tour of Austin
 And a peacock sign tree
 Yeah, you were talking about it
 I haven't been to the peacock
 See, maybe I know Austin more than you
 The peacock sign, that was quite
 It's just this, well I wouldn't say random
 But there's this place which is open to the public
 It's completely free
 And they've been rearing peacocks
 It's sort of in the city
 And you can walk around and there's just different peacocks
 In different stages of plume
 Sometimes in the tree
 So you have to be careful in the tree
 And don't want to be right beneath them
 Yeah, I'm going to have to take the boys to that at some point soon
 It's a really simple place, it's not too big
 But you just can wander around, just walk straight in
 There's no requirements for tickets or anything
 It's pretty cool
 Yeah, there's a lot of free activities here
 Austin's a very active city too, which I like
 Very outdoorsy
 Yeah
 You feel compelled to get out
 But is it like this weather all year round?
 Or is it just, because right now the weather seems perfect
 But they said like a little bit before it can get quite cold
 And afterwards it can get really, really hot
 Or is it consistent?
 Yeah, it's just in the last few weeks it's started to warm up
 It was pretty cold this winter
 And then this time last year it was already like 100 degrees
 So this is, and I only have two years to go off of right now
 And 100 degrees in Celsius, that's Fahrenheit obviously
 Yeah, in Celsius, what is it? It's got to be 30, 33
 Oh wow
 Yeah
 That's pretty, still pretty hot
 Yeah
 Yeah
 I'm pumped you're in town
 I didn't realise you were in town until Saturday
 You hit me up, I was like, oh damn
 Yeah, so I was in Orlando
 So last month was Asia, this month is the US
 And next month is Europe
 So, but I was in Orlando last week
 And later, the second half of this week
 I'm going to, and for a week I'll be in New York
 And then obviously Miami
 So I thought, well, this is not too far away from Austin
 And I haven't been and there's, you know
 One of my co-founders literally is here and other people
 So some of our investors are here
 Let me go and check it out
 But it was very last minute, why don't I spend some time here
 Yeah, so there's a lot going on down here
 It's a little quiet in the commons today
 But it's great when we get the whole crew in here
 Justin, the Mutiny guys, everybody's vibing
 Uncle, the godfather of Austin Bit Devs, Justin Moon
 I think you'll be
 The nicest guy in Bitcoin, that's what I call him
 He doesn't come in that often anymore
 He's focused in his house
 He's heads down
 He's super heads down
 Yeah, we're, you know, we're just, we're all heads down
 Sometimes we have to like, because we're so focused on trying to deliver stuff
 It can get quite stressful, but internally generated stress
 Like I never get spots on my face
 But I just had this eruption of spots last week
 And he, I think, had a similar thing
 He had like some rash on his face
 But like no one's pressuring you
 You're pressuring yourself because you're so excited about showing stuff
 And not it, what we're making not being hypothetical but being real
 Yeah, I know you guys are working on something extremely important and powerful
 So I can imagine there's a lot of pressure on the team
 But that's
 It's coming now, one way or another, it's coming very soon
 Yeah, which I'm pumped about
 But that's one thing I wanted to start out talking about
 Is given your experience in the space, starting Coinfloor
 Having your experience there, successfully starting that company
 And leaving it now, starting Fedi
 How does the build out of Fedi compare to what you experienced at Coinfloor?
 Wow
 It's actually very different
 And I think Coinfloor, I mean just, Coinfloor was this Bitcoin exchange
 And we started in 2013
 And we went on to be, well, at one point we were
 by far the biggest speaking exchange in the UK.
 One day we hit 70% market share in the UK
 for the UK volume.
 And we built out a team, very large,
 serving most of Europe.
 But there were areas where there were lessons for me.
 So let me put it this way, lessons which I would have
 preferred to not have to do or repeat,
 which is good 'cause you can then take that on
 to whatever thing you work on next.
 So when it came to FedE, I think it was very clear to me
 that I wanted to take on all those learnings
 and apply them to anything else I worked on.
 And so one thing was I had a number of things
 I'm truly passionate about.
 And sometimes the demands of trying to make money
 and so on make you forget what you're truly passionate about.
 And I was determined that would never be an issue again.
 I only wanna work with people who have the same passion
 and have investors who have the same passion.
 'Cause my belief is actually,
 if you're really, really passionate about it
 and you work with people who share the same vision
 and mission, you'll actually,
 all the things like the financial compensation,
 so on will actually be even more successful anyway,
 because the best way to go that fits with your passions
 is going to be the best way for your business as well.
 You'll attract the customers who share
 the same vision as well.
 So that's, I think, one of the biggest learnings
 that here it feels like family and first
 and business second.
 I'm really, really passionate about what I'm doing
 and everybody who's working on it
 is 100% passionate about it.
 And it just so happens that a commercial vehicle
 is the best way to achieve it.
 But if it wasn't, if it was a purely open source vehicle,
 then we would have stayed open source.
 We just realized that this is the best way
 to continue on with our passions.
 - Yeah.
 No, 'cause I remember having many conversations
 with Justin before you guys linked up
 and he was dead laser focused on,
 all right, I wanna start a company
 and I wanna do it with people who get it
 and are killers in their own verticals
 and their own expertise.
 And it seems like he's found that team
 with Fedi, with you, Eric, Skyler,
 knowing many different members of the founding team.
 It's really been cool to watch from afar
 or relatively close actually, you guys come together.
 - I don't know about me.
 I think I've got quite a lot of experience,
 but yeah, when I look at,
 if you just start with my co-founders,
 I don't know, I could get emotion about it really.
 But when I, so I bumped into Eric at Hackers Congress
 and I was in the middle of selling CoinFlow.
 And so this was a Bitcoin exchange in the UK.
 So there's a lot of oversight there.
 We had a subsidiary,
 which was one of the first regulated exchanges in Europe.
 Our price ticker for Bitcoin GBP
 was listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
 So they used the CoinFlow price feed.
 So there was a lot of oversight there,
 which is the norm,
 but I was always interested in going to something
 like Hackers Congress,
 but as the CEO of an exchange,
 you're never good, you just, that's just not good optics.
 So now I knew I was selling CoinFlow
 and it was only a few months away from being sold.
 It was pretty much a done deal.
 I thought, well, I can finally do something
 I really, really wanted to do.
 There's like three things I really want to do.
 I've only done one of them
 and there's two more on my list.
 That I've always wanted to do for over,
 for several years now,
 but one was to go to Hackers Congress,
 per NLA police.
 And I thought, you know, well,
 I've stoned the crows, I'm going to go off and do this.
 And I went and went there just as a visitor,
 I didn't announce what's going and just went around.
 I had also a very clear view in my mind
 that we have to find a viable alternative
 to people using exchanges as their mechanism for custody.
 And I was looking for solutions to that.
 I had some ideas.
 All of those were nowhere near as good as Freddie Mintz,
 as Eric, when I bumped into him by pure accident,
 he politely told me why they wouldn't work
 and I'm forever grateful.
 But we literally, and I've never smoked,
 there's nothing wrong with smoking, but I've never smoked.
 But you know, most of the interesting conversations
 often happen outside when people are smoking.
 So there was a few people, I was talking to someone
 and he said, look, I've got to go out for a smoke.
 So I went out with him just to carry on the conversation.
 It was interesting.
 And Eric, I think as well,
 so someone else and they went out.
 And so there was a group of people just chatting.
 I started chatting with Eric, just passing the time.
 I talked about some of the ideas of working on,
 he politely told me they wouldn't work.
 And I went, okay, that makes sense.
 And I go, I assume what he's working,
 he mentioned FedeMent and I was like,
 this thing is, this is a really interesting idea
 for what it was presented to solve,
 but actually it's way bigger an idea
 than you're initially presenting it.
 It's like you have a boulder on a mountain
 and there's another mountain
 and every day you have to move the boulder,
 Sisyphean like from one mountain to another
 and you're incredibly gifted and technical
 and you think, well, maybe I can invent this device
 like a platform I can put the boulder on
 and it can go against the laws of gravity
 and then just float over to the other mountain.
 So that saves my job of moving the boulder across
 which is a useful problem to solve.
 But then I come along and it was,
 you've just invented anti-gravity.
 You solved that problem,
 but this is way bigger than this thing.
 You solved like a much bigger problem,
 but it's like, oh yeah, you're right.
 Maybe it is that.
 But so I don't know if I would have met him
 in if it wasn't for pure luck,
 but we have completely different backgrounds,
 completely different ways in which we came into Bitcoin,
 completely different circles that we walked around in,
 but philosophically through, we are completely aligned.
 And then in Miami, Eric meets with Justin
 and again, they hit it off, et cetera.
 I then get, they then approach me as well.
 And if you look at us,
 just the difference of skills and backgrounds
 are just very different, different parts of the world.
 I think they're incredibly gifted in what they do
 and what they're capable of doing.
 And our philosophies are very, very aligned,
 but from completely different backgrounds.
 And what is the chance of us all meeting is like,
 I don't know, sometimes I have to sort of think,
 I sometimes just look up and go,
 this is sort of ridiculous.
 How did this all happen?
 And all the other people we've met as well,
 and all of our backgrounds,
 all of our backgrounds have just sort of come together
 on this one project and it all is useful.
 All of that stuff that, all those chance encounters
 we're able to utilize in this one project.
 So every day I just feel super grateful
 and I just wanna work as hard as I can to keep it going.
 - Yeah, it's very serendipitous.
 - It's like, almost like you start feeling,
 something is happening here that's not normally.
 - Yeah, there's some higher power,
 like, all right, you guys can do that.
 - Yeah, I just, I constantly think about it.
 And then it continues to happen,
 that the people that we're having join the organization,
 just amazing people.
 And who maybe you've made the decisions that,
 no, I'm happy where I am and all of a sudden,
 okay, I've changed my mind because of this.
 It's, yeah, we're doing something important, I think.
 We're working with incredible people.
 And I, for me, I'm doing this because I just,
 I love working with the people I'm working with,
 who love the problem that we're trying to solve
 and we'll work on it until we make it happen.
 - Yeah, and I think this is a good point
 for anybody who might be new to the show, new to Bitcoin,
 who may not understand the concept of a Fediment,
 how it fits into Bitcoin and the stacks,
 the layers above it,
 how the Fediment as the open source protocol works
 and then what you guys are trying to do at Fedi.
 - Okay, that's a good question.
 And it's been something that a few people
 have been unclear on and we're gonna make that clearer.
 But that was also because we're taking the approach of,
 let's build it.
 And if you talk about it,
 and I'll explain it again now, I'm happy to,
 it's still, the idea is quite big
 and it's hard for people to sort of get their heads around
 because it's a new concept.
 When they see it in their hand,
 it will make a lot more sense.
 So we're focusing really hard to give something
 that people have in their hand.
 And Fedi, the aim is for it to be in people's hands
 this month in May.
 So a version focused on developers,
 but I'm sure enthusiasts will download it.
 Just like Lightning, we said,
 it's just for building right now
 and it'd be reckless to use it,
 but people went off and did that.
 I'm sure that will happen, but it's focused with builders.
 But let's start with Fedi
 and then how Fediment relates to that
 and Bitcoin and Lightning and so on.
 'Cause the narrative before has been Bitcoin and Lightning
 and working this way,
 but now it's gonna be with us only in a matter of weeks.
 We can talk about it the other way around.
 So the key insight is that right now,
 something's wrong, there's trouble at mill,
 as we would say in Northern England.
 Something's wrong in the state of the web and technology.
 You've got big tech
 and you've got certain large organizations and institutions
 who we use to make our lives faster, cheaper, better, easier,
 which they do in the most part, but there is a problem.
 And we see it increasingly.
 We see situations where some of them, not all,
 but some of them, I would say misuse, abuse,
 or lose our money and our data in one way or another.
 And the reason why that happens
 is because the wrong people are in control.
 They can help and assist,
 but they are the wrong people in control.
 And so the insight for us is what is needed is a way,
 if you're skilled enough individuals, but at scale,
 we need a way for communities, for families,
 for organizations, for companies to be able to take charge,
 take control of their own money and their own data.
 And so that we don't make the mistakes
 that the existing system makes.
 It needs to be done in a way
 where there is no single point of risk,
 no single point of control.
 So at every level, there is no single point of control,
 no single point of risk.
 And so that tool, that technology that can do that
 is what we call, it's a new category,
 but we call it a federated OS.
 And FEDI over time,
 the first version won't be the full of Realize Vision,
 but over time, FEDI aims to be the world's
 first federated OS.
 Now, if you're using FEDI, what that means is
 to understand what that is,
 you have to understand FEDIMINT
 and that's the power behind FEDI
 and the federated OS concept.
 Doesn't have to be FEDI 'cause these are open protocols,
 other people can produce this, I'm sure they will in time.
 So FEDIMINT is this community custody protocol.
 It's one of the most active actually now projects
 in the Bitcoin ecosystem.
 I thought it was 20, but now there's like 50 people
 who are contributing to FEDIMINT.
 and
 It was originally, the idea was invented by Eric,
 one of, you know, Justin, me and Eric,
 one of my co-founders.
 And what it allows you to do is create
 these community custody, we call them federations,
 community custody federations,
 run by trusted members of the community.
 We call them guardians.
 And on top of custody, it's community custody,
 you also have a level of privacy,
 you also have a level of scalability,
 and both of those things are made possible
 using this protocol called Charmy and eCash,
 which is an incredible protocol.
 And you also have extensibility,
 it's, you can add other functionality,
 and there's actually no limits
 to the functionality you can add.
 And you run it on behalf of a community.
 And so each FEDI user, or any other federated OS user,
 can connect to multiple federations,
 and they have this one overall operating view of the system.
 So they can see, just like you have multiple Slack groups
 that you're part of, but you, in your experience,
 you see multiple, you see as one view,
 or you have multiple groups on WhatsApp,
 or multiple Discord channels, et cetera.
 You can have multiple federations you're a part of,
 but from your FEDI, you can access and view all of those,
 and choose independently what money
 and what data I secure with what federation.
 And each federation serves,
 'cause they are the servants to the users,
 serves tens or thousands, or tens of thousands
 of FEDI users.
 So when you combine it together,
 this sort of each FEDI user
 connects to multiple federations,
 and each federation connects to multiple,
 serving thousands or more,
 between tens and tens of thousands of FEDI users,
 this creates this sort of global,
 decentralized, federated OS network,
 where hundreds of thousands, if not millions,
 of federations run by communities and companies
 around the world are serving hundreds of millions,
 if not billions of FEDI users around the world,
 all powered by Bitcoin,
 and all connected to each other seamlessly with Lightning,
 the Lightning network.
 So you don't have a disadvantage
 of having lots of these small Bitcoin scaling layers,
 because we have this incredibly reliable Lightning network
 to settle between them seamlessly.
 And so you then don't have to have
 one monolithic scaling layer for the entire world,
 where if it goes down as a bug,
 everybody in the world goes down.
 If it's one in a million, and it has an issue,
 that is a resilient system.
 And even then, for it to have an issue,
 you have to, it's resistant to one or more
 of guardians having an issue.
 So even at the federation level, it's resistant,
 but also at a system level as well, it's resistant,
 because there's not just one layer two.
 So it is, and it's able to,
 in terms of what can you do with this,
 anything that you can do with a mobile operating system,
 a desktop operating system, or a web service
 that's used for the millions of websites on the internet,
 you can run on a federation,
 or any number of federations,
 each federation can choose which ones they run,
 just like each computer can choose
 which apps they download to it.
 But without any single point of risk,
 without any single point of control.
 So yeah, so the sky's the limit.
 Of course, you're going to have features like,
 we've seen ideas like Bitcoin-backed stable value USD.
 - That won the hackathon, right?
 - That won the hackathon, and that was incredible.
 It was an anonymous group of people built this feature,
 and it was clearly the strongest application.
 So they won the first prize,
 and we will integrate support for it,
 because it was the winner.
 But it's also an incredibly powerful idea.
 It can represent any capital assets,
 but actually back to a Bitcoin using an idea
 similar to the concept that was put forward by Taj Triger,
 discrete log contracts for difference.
 But that would require opcode changes
 to Bitcoin to be implemented,
 but you can implement it on FedE.
 And it's also, it allows you to gain discovery,
 because if multiple federations start using it,
 then that will add credence to the debate
 of whether we should add the opcode to support it.
 Because right now with a lot of discussions,
 it's, is there going to be demand or not?
 Well, if you see this grassroots demand
 through federations, then you can say,
 okay, well, let's add this feature
 directly to the base protocol,
 because we don't have to guess if there's demand anymore.
 We know there's demand.
 - Well, and I-- - And that's just one.
 I mean, there's secure password managers.
 Why hold my passwords on LostPass
 where it could potentially then be hacked
 when instead I hold it within my communities
 and my community can help me recover
 if I lose my password.
 So it's not just money, it's also data.
 - Yeah, and the password doesn't have access
 to that information anyway,
 'cause similar, like LastPass holds that information
 on their servers, but within the Mint,
 it's encrypted and only a user--
 - It'll be encrypted and it would require
 a combination of different guardians to recover,
 or it doesn't have to even be the guardians.
 It could be that the guardians are holding it encrypted,
 but you as a user could, depending on how someone,
 I'm just brainstorming, apps can be developed
 how you want, you as a user could select
 three of your friends within the Mint
 to be the people who verify,
 but they're not the people who hold it.
 The guardians are holding it, so they hold it,
 but it's encrypted, so they can't do anything with it
 without the verification from the friends.
 So you could create a module which is
 a federated password manager, and also, by the way,
 your password could be stored on three
 or four different federations.
 So if anyone, for example, I mean,
 anything that you can run on a website
 or on a mobile phone or on a computer,
 you could run on a federation.
 So that's why we say it's this federated operating system.
 There's an operating system with no,
 'cause even if it's running on your computer,
 if your computer has no backup and it goes off,
 it's still a single point of risk.
 And many people should make backups, but they don't do that.
 But if you store it in a federation,
 it's automatically being federated and backed up for you.
 So you don't have to think about the process
 of maintaining backups and recoveries and so on.
 - Yeah, another one of the first apps is encrypted chat
 that users can use.
 - Yes, again, chat.
 So again, do I want my chat to be hosted by a third party
 who may be able to oversee what I'm looking at or not?
 And they may say that it's encrypted and so on,
 but I have to trust their view on that.
 Well, again, within my community,
 it may make sense for me to take control
 of the conversations related to my community
 or within my family, take control.
 Just like in a Slack channel, I can have the,
 for a company, I can have conversations
 related to my company.
 And as a different Slack channel for a gaming community
 I'm part of, we talk about that.
 But the issue is all those conversations
 are running on Slack servers in one place.
 So you have to trust that Slack is not overseeing
 every single conversation.
 Here with federations, you don't have to trust
 that they are running on different systems, provably.
 - Yeah, that's pretty mind blowing
 when you begin to think about it.
 And that's the other cool thing,
 particularly with Eric and Justin
 and the way they've approached this methodically
 and really took the time to build it out the right way
 using Rust and then building in a modular fashion.
 - And mix Bitcoin on the background as well,
 which I think we're gonna see.
 It's hard to do that at the beginning,
 but I even mean, I'm just blown away by,
 we're gonna see the benefit of doing it the right way
 in terms of ability to build, provably build,
 reliably on different sort of bare metal,
 because you've got this such powerful package
 and delivery management system.
 - In Nix, right?
 - Yeah, in Nix, for example.
 Yeah. - Yeah.
 And so what are things that are on your radar?
 I know we just like described like the chat app
 and password manager,
 but what are some of like the financial applications
 that you see coming in the idea space
 around Fedi and FediMints particularly
 that people aren't aware of?
 Obviously you guys had that hackathon,
 the stable pool came out of that,
 a bunch of other cool stuff came out of that.
 But again, I think people think of FediMints
 and they think of instant private transactions
 within these mints and across these mints
 as the main use case, but it seems like there's.
 - Yeah, I think that is something that's possible,
 but just like that's possible using the web,
 and that's possible using your computer,
 but it's one of many things that's possible.
 So other things that we're seeing, for example,
 and I can guarantee you that once we release this
 to the builder community,
 which is what we're gonna focus on,
 the real killer apps that,
 these will be very useful things,
 but the real killer app where people
 are gonna be falling over themselves
 to set up FediMints to install
 are gonna be things that we just can't imagine.
 That's the nature.
 If you look at Windows, or if you look at DOS,
 it was the word processor and the spreadsheet
 that people invested $2,000,
 which at that time in the '80s was a lot of money,
 it's more like $10,000 to buy,
 because they didn't buy it 'cause of the computer,
 they bought it because they wanted to use a word processor.
 With the Mac, it was desktop publishing and graphics design.
 And again, the developers of this didn't envisage,
 they thought it was gonna be a nicer way
 of doing word processing,
 but actually it was a whole way of being able to construct
 and design in this visual way became the killer app.
 And you see it again and again and again,
 for even gaming platforms, it was certain games,
 and I'm buying the game for that game.
 So there's always a killer app,
 and it's always some sort of indie developer,
 so on, creates it.
 Beat Saber was Oculus more recently.
 So what's gonna happen is someone's gonna make
 a FedeMint module, it could be stability pools,
 'cause that can represent any capital asset,
 which is $400 trillion of capital assets.
 Any capital asset in the world could be represented by that,
 any currency, any stock, any derivative, any bond,
 any commodity, that's pretty lost,
 that's quite a lot there.
 Or it could be someone is working on,
 I think a few people are working on things
 like simplicity-based FedeMint modules.
 So again, I can then start adding,
 but again, that's a meta app in that it can now represent
 any simplicity contract, and there's a near infinite set
 of simplicity contracts I can write.
 So it won't necessarily be that,
 but it will be some of the simplicity contracts
 written on that that will be really powerful,
 and I won't be able to imagine all of those.
 Or what could be another thing that's,
 those two are already pretty big, as I said.
 - The simplicity thing was something
 that Justin and Eric worked on on Hackathon.
 - Justin worked on that, I think there's a couple of teams
 are working on more polished versions of that right now,
 for example.
 There are other things that people are working on
 that I wanna wait for them to announce they're working on,
 but if you just take those two things,
 they're just incredibly flexible
 in terms of what they can do.
 There will be, oh, community,
 there's people looking at ways in which
 you can have community run and hosted pools of capital.
 So for example, a community might wanna receive money,
 not just for a particular person,
 but for the purpose of the community to then vote
 and use in some way to the benefit of the community.
 And that could be for a company,
 it could be for a family, a family fund, whatever.
 Anytime you wanna have this collective pool of capital,
 and then you wanna own and then deploy,
 maybe based on some sort of, and then how you deploy it.
 - We wanna go on a trip next year.
 - Yeah, so and how you deploy it will be based on,
 there could be many variations on that.
 So it could be based on voting,
 and so we vote to use the money this way,
 or it could be based on hitting a certain target of revenue
 it could be triggered.
 There could be interest in providing services for others.
 So for example, you have chat, but what about Nostar?
 A Nostar relay, at some point,
 some of these relays will charge fees.
 But the effort to run it might be complex.
 You could run that at a community level
 on behalf of not just the community,
 but anyone in the world.
 And the revenues that it creates go to the community fund.
 So all of a sudden communities can provide infrastructure
 for the decentralized web and generate revenue for that,
 for the benefit of the community.
 These are some of the things
 that people are starting to think about,
 but I can guarantee you,
 they're gonna think about many more things than we.
 We're just gonna make it incredibly easy to set up,
 incredibly easy to build for.
 I mean, set up five minutes or less,
 building apps, two hours or less,
 you should be able to start building apps for it.
 And then just leave it to the...
 And also the other thing about Fedi as well,
 that's missing.
 If you look at the Bitcoin stack,
 the sort of grassroots Bitcoin stack,
 it's Bitcoin, it's lightning.
 I think Nostar is coming,
 'cause Nostar is like a discovery layer.
 It allows you to discover resources
 without knowing the other person, whatever that may be.
 It might be tweets,
 but it could be offers for services
 or products or anything else.
 So it replaces the discovery elements of Google,
 of Facebook, of Amazon.
 If you think about what they are,
 it's a payment system,
 it's a bit of storage and it's discovery.
 And that represents much of the web.
 So Nostar provides you a decentralized
 censorship resistant way of discovery.
 And then Fedimint allows you to add functional extension.
 It's your scaling layer for functionality and so on.
 The other thing that we need is the last piece
 is a way for making people know around the world
 that this stuff all exists.
 And that's another big part of Fedi,
 which is over the next two years,
 we plan and that's where a big part of what we raise,
 we plan to hire hundreds of Fedi or Fedi masters,
 Fedi Knights, there's a slight failing there,
 and Fedi ambassadors.
 And I always say to locate, educate
 and inculcate communities around the world,
 North, South, East, West,
 starting in the global South
 because it's just a low hanging through and so on,
 but we will be hiring globally.
 And so, yeah, we, by the end of 2026,
 we will only be approaching 500 of these.
 It's also more cost effective to hire in the global South.
 You can get a lot more people,
 but we will hire everywhere.
 And they will make myself and Justin
 and other members of my team like Renata
 look like we're on Valium and super chilled.
 They're gonna be like local versions,
 super passionate about Bitcoin,
 super passionate understanding the system,
 but also passionate about their local area.
 And so if you have the Fedi app
 and you want to understand more what you can do with it
 or how to set it up or so on,
 there will be someone local who can meet up with you,
 speak your own language,
 understand your culture and walk you through it.
 So we'll have online resources for education, which is great,
 but we will have people on the ground as well.
 And they will be educating people about Bitcoin,
 about Lightning, about Nostra, about FediMint
 and the entire Bitcoin ecosystem.
 It's 'cause the crazy thing about FediMint
 and federations is think of it as an operating system.
 Imagine operating system without a computer to run on
 or without a network connection
 to connect to the rest of the world or without apps.
 The most complex piece of software on your computer
 is your operating system,
 but without the rest of the stuff, it can't do anything.
 It's an enabler for the rest of the stuff.
 And it's the same for a federation.
 You have to have Bitcoin nodes to run on.
 So we have to then recommend,
 or you maybe should use Startnight,
 maybe you should use Nod,
 or maybe you should use Umbrell,
 maybe you should use Raspberry Blitz or so on.
 You have to have the connection
 to the rest of the Bitcoin network.
 So then we'll say, well, maybe you should use,
 and forgive me if I don't say the names,
 but maybe you should Voltage, Ibex, Mercado,
 maybe you should use Zebedee.
 So we have to find ways of,
 we have to advise them that
 because the federation doesn't do that.
 And then also you need apps.
 So we'll say, well, on and off ramp,
 maybe you should use Bitrefill,
 maybe you should use Bitnob,
 maybe you should use Neutron Pay or so on,
 depending on, and the solution will be different
 depending on the country you're in and so on.
 And then maybe you should use this module.
 Maybe if you want to have,
 if it's important to have stable value in USD,
 maybe you can use a stable coin,
 or maybe you can use stability pools
 or stable sets or whatever.
 So we have to promote all this other stuff
 for a community to get the value.
 So every time a federation goes into a community,
 all this other stuff goes in automatically as part of it.
 So we win by helping the entire Bitcoin ecosystem win.
 There is no way else.
 You can't just say use Fediment,
 but have no machine to run it on,
 have no node, have no access to the light network
 and do nothing with it.
 It's like saying I've got Microsoft Windows
 and no apps and no machine and no internet.
 It needs the rest of that other stuff
 because it's just the operator system.
 It's not the actual thing you do.
 It's the thing that allows you to run the other stuff.
 - Yeah, it needs the network effect and the--
 - The apps and everything else.
 - Yeah, the vibrant building.
 And that's the one thing, like boots on the ground,
 I think, particularly in the West,
 a lot of people discount that,
 but in the areas of the world that you're targeting first,
 global South, like boots on the ground
 is extremely important 'cause people need that.
 - Yeah.
 I mean, we have boots on the ground here.
 So here is the massive advantage we have
 is places like Bitcoin Commons.
 And we have this incredibly vibrant
 and well-educated in the ways of Bitcoin group of people.
 So we already have our knights and ambassadors and so on
 who are well-resourced and are very sophisticated
 in how they can communicate.
 So the things that we're doing here are just amazing.
 So if we added a lot of people here,
 which we could do and we will do,
 it's less needed than in other places
 where the message is not so clear.
 So if we have this,
 but the demand is very strong there as well,
 but we will work with people here,
 maybe on a funding or supporting or sponsoring things
 versus hiring full-time
 'cause there's already existing network of people
 who already have communities that know and trust them.
 But one way or another,
 we're gonna tap into these communities
 and either the resource,
 if the infrastructure is not there,
 hire the infrastructure.
 And if it is there, just support and fund it.
 - Yeah.
 And when you guys are successful
 in getting into these areas and getting FEDI adopted,
 what's your biggest hope for success of like how this,
 not for FEDI particularly,
 but for the communities that begin leveraging FEDI,
 like how does it help them at the end of the day?
 - So it depends on where they are in the world,
 but like in the global South,
 or if they're living under the yoke of authoritarian regimes
 and dictatorships,
 they either have a lack of choice
 or they cannot trust the choices they have.
 And so that is a zero to one scenario.
 So for example, if you're in certain countries
 and if you receive money from the wrong person,
 it could lead to significant negative consequences for you
 in terms of your liberty and even your life
 if you use the traditional systems.
 So being able to use an alternative approach like Bitcoin
 is a game changer for you.
 Now, if you can do that using a self custodial system,
 it's great, but sometimes that's a challenge to do
 for various reasons, technical acumen,
 costs, complexity, and so on.
 FEDI is something where we can have people on the ground
 or parts of their community who can help them set up,
 potentially run and manage their infrastructure remotely
 for on their behalf in terms of the guardians
 and the servers they're running,
 but provide it to a community in a region of the world
 where it's difficult to get stuff into that region safely
 on behalf of the community.
 And so they therefore now have the ability
 to receive payment on and off ramp locally, et cetera.
 Then you've got places in say the global South
 where they have options, but they're incredibly expensive.
 People talk about M-Pesa a lot,
 which has educated people in large parts of East Africa
 on the idea of digital money.
 So in terms of usage of digital money,
 there's some of the most advanced in the world.
 People pay for transport with digital money.
 They pay for goods and services with digital money.
 They receive salaries in digital money already,
 but these are centralized systems run by one organization
 and they can be quite expensive.
 Average fees are two to 4% and they can be as high
 in extreme, all being extreme cases,
 but as high as 30, 40% to use M-Pesa.
 And M-Pesa is like the marquee or the flag bearer
 of how it should be done right.
 So now compare that, but what you do with M-Pesa
 is functionally can all can be done
 with Bitcoin and Lightning,
 but you're not paying two to 4% average all the way up
 to 40%, you're paying basis points and that's,
 and on consistently.
 So just in that case, that's a significant cost saving.
 And then when, don't get me started with remittance.
 I mean, the remittance costs would then be assigned
 to average in sort of double digits as the average.
 And again, it can be incredibly high.
 So just as a cost saving,
 it's massive for that part of the world.
 And then I just think anybody who values the ability
 for them to, for they or their family and friends
 to be able to have some control over their money
 and their sensitive data, it's not all data.
 If it's a cat picture or something,
 it may not be that important.
 It depends on the cat obviously,
 some people really love their cats.
 But if it's very sensitive data
 or very valuable data to you and your community,
 and it's all your money,
 you may want an increased level of control.
 And that's important for anybody,
 anyone in the world where they value freedom and liberty.
 - Yeah.
 And I think of like the human ingenuity
 is could potentially unlock when people don't have fear
 that they're being surveilled.
 'Cause that's another important thing to mention
 the way the blinded signatures work
 in these Chami and e-cash systems.
 I think you mentioned the example of people operating
 within systems and they send a particular person money
 that could affect them negatively in the real world.
 And within these mints, the Federation members,
 the guardians have no idea who's sending what to who,
 especially after you get enough people in the mint
 becomes almost heuristically impossible
 to try to deduce who's sending to who.
 And so when you have that fear wiped away,
 I'd be like, hey, I don't feel like sending money
 to this person 'cause I think it's gonna come back
 to haunt me and then not even just sending money,
 but sharing pictures, sharing information,
 particular political views, whatever it may be.
 When that self-censorship stops
 and people become emboldened and begin.
 - Yeah, and I think that as I said,
 there's incredible capabilities that are unlocked
 by the use of FedeMints and that's part of it.
 And other parts of the incredible ability for scale,
 also the incredible ability to extend functionality
 of your community, when you combine it all together,
 it's a very powerful proposition.
 So when we were looking at,
 if you're going to try and build this sort of federated OS,
 I don't think there's any other solution
 that made sense for us to use other than basing on Bitcoin,
 using Lightning as the mechanism to connect
 with the rest of the ecosystem,
 and using FedEmint as the protocol to act as this base
 for any given federation.
 It is possible, of course, because it's so flexible,
 for people to also take off or add things.
 Not only can they add, but they can take off.
 So in theory, if certain, for example,
 companies decided that they wanted to not use a feature,
 they could also do that.
 And that's the nature of the system being so flexible.
 It wouldn't be a true operating system
 if you couldn't do that.
 However, by default, you get that baked in
 and you don't have to think about it.
 And for most people's use cases,
 it makes sense to use the system as it is by default.
 - Yeah, yeah.
 It's fascinating, the potential this could unlock.
 And then you combine it.
 We were talking yesterday, there's something like gridless.
 - Oh yeah.
 - I want to talk about it, like empowering local communities,
 get them an app like FedE,
 and then give them the ability to leverage
 stranded energy sources to mine Bitcoin as well.
 Like you can see little strong economies
 popping up all over.
 - Yeah, what were you saying about gridless?
 - I mean, it's just the ability to monetize
 that stranded hydro,
 drive down the price and electrify a local community
 and make it economically viable.
 - Yeah, and you can imagine once that's happened,
 the community is generating,
 or parts of the community are generating a revenue
 in denominated in Bitcoin.
 There's lots of opportunities around that
 that I want to continue to investigate.
 For example, it makes sense,
 especially because these are quite decentralized
 organizations in the fact that there's not one mining farm,
 there's ultimately hundreds around,
 that you have to have local people who you train
 to be able to service and manage these systems.
 So one, you're gaining skills locally,
 but the natural way to compensate them is in Bitcoin,
 because that's the way you're earning revenue anyway.
 And then now you have these members of the local community
 who have this source of revenue as Bitcoin,
 for some elements of that,
 they'd want to convert into local currency.
 And so, and they'd want to be able to directly use these
 to pay for certain things.
 So what happens is slowly other members of the community
 will start to accept and utilize and so on.
 And so from that seed,
 usage of Bitcoin in general spreads out.
 But again, eventually some will be ready
 and comfortable with self-custodying,
 but to get involved quickly and easily,
 and to deal with issues of backing up my keys
 and recovering them in the event I've lost
 and having an easy user experience.
 And also having features which are adding functionality,
 which is right or correct for that community,
 all in one place.
 The idea of setting up a federation for that community
 and people using Fedi as a way to connect to that federation
 and other federations that might make sense
 for different users, 'cause they can pick and choose.
 It seems like a very logical step.
 So I'm keen to continue to explore that as well.
 - Yeah, I mean, you can see many,
 forgive me for the buzzword, synergies coming out of-
 - So what synergies is a good word,
 but it's been so maligned and so abused
 that now it's like in the naughty corner forever.
 We have to get it out of the noise corner.
 It's a useful word when-
 - I'll say it proudly.
 There's potential synergies that could come out.
 We were talking about Fedi pools yesterday too.
 And you think of the mining infrastructure
 in this part of the world gets to a point
 where it's significantly robust
 and you have multiple different operators
 who have the ability to set up a federation
 and create a Fedi pool.
 And then maybe their employees are getting paid out Bitcoin
 straight to a federation via Fedi or something like that.
 You can see an ecosystem developing
 around the mining community.
 Like, all right, we don't want to point
 to Binance pool anymore.
 Let's create our own Fedi pool.
 We have enough hash rate.
 - Yeah, the ability to take control.
 And in this case, it will be Bitcoin miners.
 And then also you can lower the costs of payouts
 'cause you can pay it out over Lightning directly.
 So it's just very convenient.
 It'll be lower costs.
 It'll be quicker.
 So it's a win-win.
 - We're learning the lesson of lower cost
 on Lightning right now.
 - Yeah, yeah.
 I mean-
 - What's your take on all this fee congestion?
 - For me, it's all good.
 For every time, for Bitcoin to win, it has to be tested
 and it has to go through all the different tests
 and then it passes them.
 And while it hasn't gone through a test,
 then it's still in the process of winning.
 It wins as a sort of like a point in time
 when it's gone through every test and passed.
 So I see it as this, think about one of these sort of games
 where at the end of each level, you have like a big boss
 and you have to beat that to go to the next level.
 And until you're being the big boss,
 you can't go to the next level.
 And until you've beaten the final boss,
 you can't finish the game.
 So by definition, if there are certain things
 that we are waiting to deal with,
 then we're still playing, we're still in the game.
 We haven't finished the game.
 And so then once you realize that,
 you wanna run to the final boss and just like deal with it.
 So high fees and guess what happens?
 Every time it happens, we get stronger, we get better,
 we get faster.
 So now fees are up and higher.
 So people, certain exchanges are now looking
 to implement Lightning because,
 and if that never happens, then there would have been,
 we could have been waiting another year or so
 before they implemented it.
 If we're just waiting on their good graces,
 but now they have a need to, it's prioritized and it happens.
 And once they've implemented it, then people use it
 and you mass educate a lot of people against all the fud
 around Lightning goes away.
 'Cause people go, wait a minute, this is actually,
 it's really easy and it's really convenient.
 So why were people saying to me otherwise?
 And then they start to work out who to trust
 and who not to trust.
 So that wouldn't have happened if it wasn't for the fees.
 So bring on the high fees, 'cause then it leads
 to much, much lower fees 'cause people start architecting
 the right way as opposed to shorthand ways that work
 in a simplified market.
 - Yeah, no, I agree completely.
 But it's been funny to see the last seven days,
 people are like using this high V environment
 and pointing at Lightning, like, look,
 Lightning's done nothing.
 And it's like, eh, I wouldn't go that far,
 but is Lightning ready for the main stage, do you think?
 - Yeah, I think it is.
 People will switch over to Lightning, it will have issues
 and then people correct the issues.
 But we've got organizations who are doing,
 huge numbers of transactions.
 Again, I don't like singling out
 'cause everybody's doing incredible stuff.
 But just I was on a stage with Zebedee
 a few days ago and they're dealing with transactions
 for Square Enix, this publicly traded gaming company,
 $6 billion market cap, which is very,
 very high transaction volume and they're handling it.
 And other Lightning service providers are handling volumes
 for significantly sized offerings and organizations.
 So if there is a blip here or a blip there,
 we have the resources and the skills to just then,
 that's an opportunity for an entrepreneur to come in
 and provide the liquidity and the resources for it.
 And then they'll correct it and it just gets stronger.
 But it's each one of these,
 that's the nature of being anti-fragile.
 It's not never, people confuse being,
 the opposite of fragile is sturdy or tough,
 but that's not the opposite of fragile.
 Fragile is when it's attacked,
 it gets weaker and it breaks.
 Sturdy is when it's attacked, it stays the same.
 Anti-fragile is when it's attacked, it gets stronger,
 it gets better, it gets faster.
 That is the Bitcoin community, that is Lightning and so on.
 So if it's not being attacked, it doesn't need to do it.
 But as soon as it's attacked, it's like the Incredible Hulk.
 The more he's attacked, there's actually,
 I mean, I'm a geek for it, you're gonna see.
 You didn't ask me, I thought you would,
 about the other two events I wanted to go to,
 other than Hacker's Congress.
 One was Comic-Con in San Diego.
 I've never gone and I'm a super comic book geek
 and I really wanna go.
 It won't be this year again, unfortunately,
 'cause of conflicts, but I do wanna go at some point
 before I'm 60.
 And then the other one is Anime Expo,
 because I'm just sort of into anime and comics and so on.
 But so comic geekery,
 Incredible Hulk by all accounts,
 people say, who's the strongest superhero and so on.
 And many people say Superman and this and the other,
 and you've got the Marvel and DC universe.
 But by many accounts in the Marvel universe,
 which is Captain America, all that sort of stuff,
 Incredible Hulk is technically,
 as written in the comic books, the strongest,
 because there is actually no limits to how strong he is.
 But as he's attacked, he gets stronger and stronger.
 And if he's attacked more, he gets even more stronger.
 So at the beginning, he doesn't seem that strong,
 but then if you attack him, then he gets stronger.
 And there was one point where every single,
 every single good superhero in the Marvel universe
 tried to attack the Incredible Hulk,
 and they couldn't beat him because he just kept getting
 bigger and bigger and stronger and stronger.
 There is actually no limit to how strong he is,
 but he will always get strong enough to meet the demand
 and no more.
 And then when this goes away, it goes, it retracts back,
 which is the essence of an efficient anti-fragile system.
 Why have all these resources consumed
 when you don't need to?
 When this happens, you react and you get stronger,
 you get better, you get faster.
 So Bitcoin, it's not green, it's orange,
 but we are the equivalent.
 - The digital Hulk.
 - The digital Hulk, yeah.
 - No, but it's, I mean, we're seeing,
 that's how it's happened historically too.
 You definitely experienced this at CoinFloor,
 like in 2017, the fees go out, we have the Segwit battle.
 Segwit got implemented.
 We've had this all for a few years now.
 Taproot gets implemented,
 ordinals and inscriptions,
 figure out a way to get all this data in.
 And now I wouldn't even call it an attack.
 It's just exploring a part of the--
 - Yeah, attack's the wrong word,
 'cause I don't want people to feel that they think
 these things are an attack.
 Stuff happens, the system is stressed,
 and then it reacts and it responds,
 'cause that's when it needs to do it.
 And that reminds you of why this is such an incredible
 platform, 'cause it reacts that way.
 - Yeah, and then to the people pooh-poohing lightning,
 that's one thing I think, particularly in the crypto sphere,
 they really misunderstand with lightning.
 They'll point at network capacity, amount of channels,
 and they'll say, "Look at all the wrapped Bitcoin
 "on Ethereum, it's nowhere near that."
 That's actually a massive vindication of lightning,
 'cause you can do so much with so little.
 The amount of volume you can do within these channels,
 if you set 'em up properly,
 if you set 'em up properly, it works pretty well.
 We set up our lightning node in 2019
 for the company that we use on the site.
 We get a lot of volume because of podcasting too.
 and just people tipping and running transactions
 through our node.
 And we've, we have like maybe monthly channel management
 stuff that we need to do.
 But other than that, it's been working for us.
 - And as I said, there are organizations who are now,
 you know, setting themselves up or set up to be able to
 support people or communities, however they want to.
 So if they want to have it fully self-hosted,
 you can do that.
 If you want it to be hosted by others,
 but managed by this community, you can do it.
 Or if you want it to be fully outsourced.
 And then where there are sort of fundamental limits,
 there is work happening.
 A big example of federations are a way of scaling
 beyond any limit of lightning as well.
 'Cause effectively it takes one lightning channel,
 one light and makes it available to, you know,
 10, 1,000, 10,000 people,
 which has another level again of scaling as well.
 So there is no, when you combine all of these elements
 with Bitcoin, with lightning, with Fediment and with Nostra,
 I now think you've got this complete,
 obviously with all of those apps and services
 around it as well.
 But you have all the sort of fundamental levels needed
 to do anything you can imagine,
 but quicker, faster, better than any other network
 in a more decentralized way with no single point of risk,
 no single point of control.
 So we're ready to go.
 - Yeah, you're distributing the scaling
 'cause like within a Fediment,
 you can transact back and forth with other members
 that stays encapsulated in that Mint.
 And then if you need to interact with Bitcoin,
 Lightning and Voice or another federation,
 you just use Lightning Network and it shoots over.
 - Yeah, it's, but as a Bitcoin community,
 we're ready to go.
 There's no intrinsic limits in terms of what we do.
 There never were, but the elements of the architecture
 are now becoming clearer.
 We just need to keep focusing on our game.
 You know, it's like, you know,
 and as time goes by, as these stresses happen,
 it will become clearer and clearer
 why it's the right approach.
 And you just have to keep focusing on your game.
 - Yeah, do you feel,
 do you feel any more sense of urgency now
 compared to in the past where CoinFloor,
 do you think the mission's only one more?
 - I mean, I've had the same date in my mind since I,
 well, since 2019, but I was public about it in 2020.
 So I made a tweet and I made it my pin tweet since 2020.
 And I've never, I changed it at the end of last year
 to a retweet of the tweet.
 But, and it basically stated that I thought 2023
 is the year, well, first of all, 2018 to 2023
 was the year Bitcoin is, is the year Bitcoin is attacked.
 And 2023 is the year Bitcoin wins.
 And I said, you can only win when you're attacked
 and you survive the attack.
 You know, that's just like, you can only win
 when the, you have that final challenge.
 So I had a strong sense of urgency over the last few years
 since that tweet in 2020
 to look for a solution for the missing pieces.
 'Cause I thought Lightning was a solution for payments,
 but what was the solution for discovery?
 What was the solution for extensing,
 functional extensibility that also was decentralized
 and so on, and it didn't require
 a single monolithic solution,
 but it was highly decentralized.
 And then in 2021, I bumped into Eric
 and a short while later, we, Eric bumped into Justin
 and then we all connected.
 And it became clear that this was another key element
 in terms of the extensibility.
 And then last year as well, we saw,
 although it'd been in the background,
 being worked on the same for Fedi,
 for Fedi, it'd been working for three years,
 but it was just in the background
 getting to a level of technical maturity.
 Same for Nostar.
 And last year again, the end of last year,
 Nostar hit that inflection point.
 And now I'm, there's still a lot of work
 from a lot of different people to do,
 but I feel like you've got the people
 with the right mindset.
 You've got all the tools.
 We can do anything that you see on other platforms here,
 better, faster, in a more decentralized way,
 in a more censorship resistant way.
 So we just have to get on and do it.
 So I feel, I don't wanna take it for granted,
 but I feel a lot more confident now
 because I can see all the different elements
 and there's no, they're all,
 so we have functional, a functionally complete offering.
 We just need to, and we've got resources
 in terms of funding as well.
 You just saw recent funding for Nostar
 from OpenSats as well.
 We've got significant funding
 for Lightning related projects.
 We have funding for FediMint.
 If I have my way, there'll be significantly more.
 And so you're gonna see the fruits of all of this
 on Nostar, on Lightning, on FediMint
 as for over the coming months.
 And I'm really excited to see tons of entrepreneurs
 coming out, building on all these platforms.
 And then, and that's the way you know for sure
 when people can just see it working,
 it instantly makes sense.
 When you try to talk about it, it doesn't.
 So I'm asked to talk about it, of course,
 'cause we've just raised et cetera.
 But I would very much prefer to just like,
 just show people stuff and get them to play around with it
 and breaking in and it'll be broken
 and we fix it and so on.
 But the quicker people find holes and issues,
 the quicker we fix them.
 And then you have a complete solution for people.
 - Yeah, the tools.
 - That's what I'm most keen about.
 - Yeah, the tools are all there.
 - Tools are all there.
 Let's just get on and build now.
 Build, build, build, build.
 That's what excites me the most
 over the coming weeks and months.
 - Yeah, I mean, when you see it,
 when you see how quickly the ecosystem around Nostr
 has been built, it's pretty fascinating.
 Obviously, you start with the Twitter clients.
 Now we have like medium-length clients,
 you can do music clients.
 - Yeah, 'cause it's a discovery.
 All these sites are discover,
 the thing that makes them useful,
 the ones that it's replacing is there's some mechanism
 to discover people that you don't know,
 but you have some sort of shared need or interest.
 And Nostr, that's what's powerful about it.
 It provides you that.
 Now you've got that.
 And then you wanna be able to add functionality, okay?
 You have the filaments and you wanna be able to then pay
 for it at a low cost, high speed and that's lightning.
 Then that is every single app in existence
 can now be replicated with those elements.
 - Yeah, it's-- - Everything.
 - Just when you think about like opening up,
 like the ability for people to build on Fediments too.
 - Yeah.
 - And like looking at what just happened on Nostr,
 like if that's replicated there,
 this could happen rather quickly.
 - It will happen.
 That's why people think, well,
 the 23 feet, that seems like a lot to happen.
 Well, no.
 And also look at what's happened with AI.
 It's in a matter of the level of development
 on open source AI protocols now are,
 some of the latest models are supposed to be 97%
 as good as GPT-4.
 - Yeah.
 - In two months of it being released
 and they're open source and they can run
 on your home computer.
 So it's like, let's just,
 we're in this accelerating loop
 when you have these tools that allow you
 to innovate so quickly.
 - Yeah.
 - Just give people the tools and step back
 and just watch in awe,
 what the power of the open source community can do.
 - Yeah.
 And people are more receptive than ever,
 I believe, to finding and using these tools.
 - That's the belief, yeah.
 - Yeah.
 I could sit here for like three more hours
 and dive into it.
 I know you've got to go though.
 - Unfortunately, yep.
 Yep, I do.
 But it was good.
 It was good coming and talking.
 It's like, I've seen these interviews happen
 from the other side of the screen.
 So it's super surreal.
 Even being in Austin, it's like,
 I remember the first time I went to New York
 and I saw like the potholes and the smoke coming from it.
 And I felt like I'd already been there
 'cause I've seen it in every single movie ever growing up.
 And it's the same here.
 It's like, I feel like I've been here before,
 this weird deja vu, but.
 - Well, it's so much better in person.
 - Oh yeah, no, it's much better in person,
 but it's still, it's just so weird
 that you can come somewhere and not see someone,
 and then you start talking like it was like yesterday
 when you actually haven't actually met up in person
 until that moment.
 - Well, that's one of the most beautiful things
 about Bitcoin is everybody who's in it, working on it,
 we have this like shared belief as like a base
 as soon as we meet, it's like, all right,
 I know you're a good person at heart
 because you're in this trench with me.
 Then it just makes everything easier after that.
 - It's a great community.
 - Yeah, well, keep crushing it, man.
 - Thank you very much.
 Thank you for your support as well.
 You know, for you 1031, again, I always say,
 you guys were one of the first cheerleaders
 before we were even a commercial company.
 It was just a open source idea.
 And I remember you were walking--
 - Walking on the trail that we were talking about.
 - It was out on the trail.
 It was on the trail and you called it like,
 we didn't know, that was when it was just purely
 an open source project.
 And we hadn't even thought about making it
 a commercial entity, but you're saying,
 well, it doesn't matter.
 We'll still sort of just donate money to Fedimint
 and just as a gift and just keep working on it.
 You said exactly the same, effectively the same thing,
 keep crushing it, keep working on it.
 And I'm sure something will come from it.
 So that was really important for us
 to make us sort of aware we're in a bubble
 and make people aware that there are people outside
 who just really believe in what we're doing.
 So that was really, really valuable
 to get to where we got now and really appreciate that.
 - Well, no need to thank me.
 All thanks goes to you, Eric Justin,
 everybody else working on Fedi
 and then Fedimint, the open source protocol.
 'Cause I remember when Eric dropped the mailing list email
 in like July of last year, I was like, holy crap,
 this is gonna be massive.
 And then fast forward to, it wasn't July of last year,
 July of 2021, then fast forward.
 - Yeah, it's a--
 - Fast forward to Bitcoin 2022
 and then you're on stage with him.
 You did your presentation, you guys had that panel.
 - And then the panel afterwards,
 which was Aaron Van Weerdum was moderating
 and it was Eric and Casey Rodemo actually.
 And then I remember afterwards also Casey was mentioning,
 he's working on some idea
 to do with like tracking every single Satoshi.
 And we were like, oh, okay, interesting.
 - I think he thought it was like this sort of art project.
 - Now we've got a lot of fees on the network, which is--
 - Yeah, yeah, it's all interesting.
 I think the most interesting stuff happening
 is just, it's all Bitcoin stuff, which is fun.
 - Yeah, it's a lot of fun.
 - Okay. - We're gonna win.
 - Always.
 - All right, Obi, thank you.
 Safe travels to New York tomorrow.
 - Matey, thank you very much.
 - Thank you, that's all we got today, freaks.
 Peace and love.
 (air whooshing)
 (upbeat music)
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
