 Yeah, so this is just pretty much a call to put together some admin personas for Fetty.
 So, yeah, I have a couple of questions.
 Jose wanted to join, but he couldn't make it, so he sent over some questions.
 I created a bit of a -- I don't know if you guys prefer to work together in a Google document
 or if you prefer to work together in Figma Jam.
 Is there any preferences that you guys have?
 Sorry, what was the second option?
 Figma Jam.
 Yeah, Seth here.
 I would always prefer Figma Jam and keeping things in Figma whenever possible over Google,
 absolutely.
 Yeah, Figma.
 Cool.
 I've never used that before, but willing to learn, so let's do that.
 Cool.
 So I'll just share my screen.
 I didn't -- you know, I kept things really loose because I'd like you guys to also try
 to, you know, kind of guide this as much as possible because I kind of looked at the original
 personas that we put together, and then kind of, you know, so it's the personality, the
 set up, the goals, the administration, and I tried to put together some sticky notes
 here to kind of pull these ideas out of you guys by asking questions and moving on to
 discussing their needs.
 Kind of just keep things very loose, but, you know, happy to be guided by you guys as
 well because still very much learning.
 So Seth, if you have any ideas, feel free to chime in.
 Yeah, just for a bit of clarity today, are we talking about the -- it looks like we're
 talking about the admin user personas as opposed to the Lightning Gateway personas.
 Is that right?
 As far as I know, right?
 Okay.
 Yeah, I was going back.
 I was going back through -- I thought we were talking about the Gateway.
 Is it the Gateway user personas?
 So, I mean, maybe we can chat through both, I guess.
 I mean, the Gateway and the Federation are -- they might be two separate people, right?
 In some cases, they might overlap, but hopefully in kind of the end state of this, they will
 be separate entities.
 So, and I thought, if I remember correctly, I thought Kitman had done a bunch of the user
 personas for the Federation a while back.
 Is that right?
 Or he at least brought some ideas there?
 Yeah, my understanding is that the ones that we're looking at right here were done for
 -- were the original ones done by Kitman, and I think Jose jumped in on that as well.
 And I think that these were maybe just sort of broad in scope and applicable to maybe
 the overall -- all of the different components of Fetiman.
 Right.
 So, right.
 So, these are great for the Federation.
 And I think it kind of really -- it describes that there's actually a few different kinds
 of people that might want to run a Fetiman and it applies in different scenarios, like
 above, at least.
 My personal -- I suspect that these will be popular at meetups, which would be kind of
 like the ban here.
 And then also, with Fetty's initiative, sort of targeting smaller communities and the global
 south and everything, like, yeah, the activism part, Global Activists would be another one.
 But if we wanted to move on to the Lightning Gateway and talk through some of those, I
 think those -- so, I think those people are actually going to be a little different.
 And unfortunately, I think it's -- they're a bit more narrowly scoped.
 And I can explain why I think that.
 So, the main thing about the Gateway is that the operator of the Lightning Gateway must
 trust the Federation.
 But it's not the other way around.
 So, the Federation does not have to trust the Lightning Gateway.
 And in fact, it doesn't even really need to know, like, which Lightning Gateway is connected
 to it.
 So because of that, and the other part about the Gateway is that it -- the whole purpose
 of it is to do this swap between e-cash notes and the Lightning Network.
 So it's kind of like -- in a way, it's kind of like a market maker.
 In that it is allowing for inbound and outbound liquidity over the Lightning Network in exchange
 for e-cash notes from the Federation, essentially.
 So I think this has a few implications on the personas.
 And that's what I was kind of thinking about in the last day or so.
 The main one being that really the people that are going to want to run gateways are
 also going to be, like, Lightning router nodes or LSPs.
 And so that's the main persona, I think, is someone that already has a successful Lightning
 routing node on the network or operates an LSP like Zebedee or Voltage or something like
 that.
 And just to finish that thought, I think the reason why is mainly because, one, those people
 already have liquidity on the network.
 And to build a successful Lightning router node, you sort of need to lock in a bunch
 of capital into channels and whatnot.
 And there's some time spent balancing those.
 And you'll need to also do that when you're operating a Lightning gateway.
 >> And I guess part of that, it kind of goes without saying that the incentive here is
 for that operator of the Lightning gateway to stack more Sats by providing that liquidity,
 right?
 >> Yep.
 So they would stack Sats really via e-cash notes based on fees right now.
 So I think they have, if I remember correctly, and we're still actively working on this part,
 but there's like a 1% hard-coded fee for inbound payments.
 So if you're doing a peg in via Lightning, the Lightning gateway will make 1% on the
 payment, but it'll be paid out in e-cash notes.
 So yeah, the other part of this is like, and I'm not sure how to think about this, I'll
 just throw this out there, is that because the gateway needs to trust the Federation,
 and it's obvious in how they are, right?
 They're trusting the Federation by holding the e-cash notes of the Federation.
 If the Federation were to go to rug pull, then the Lightning gateway would be out of
 a lot of money.
 So because of that trust relationship, I think it kind of, I mean, I'm kind of brainstorming
 right here.
 It never remains to be seen how many Federations a gateway will actually connect to.
 I think in the beginning, like Fetty is going to be running one of these, and most people
 will probably just connect to that one.
 But in the ideal world, we'd have like sort of a marketplace for Federations where there's
 a lot of, or sorry, for gateways, where a lot of people are running gateways, and you
 kind of have your, when you're a client, you kind of have your option of which one to connect
 to.
 But it's also possible for gateways to be connected to multiple Federations.
 And the trade-off there is that you can service more clients and you can potentially make
 more fees, but you also need to trust like these new Federations, which might, depending
 on who they are, might be a little sketchy, right?
 Like I don't, if I was running a lightning gateway, I wouldn't necessarily want just
 some random person I'd never met or conversed with to be like, "Hey, you should connect
 your gateway to my Federation."
 Because how do I know that they're not just going to run off with the funds?
 So people have to trust the gateway to basically want to be part of a Federation.
 Sorry, say again?
 People have to trust the gateway to be part of the Federation.
 So you're talking about clients, like end FediMint user clients?
 I'm not quite sure.
 I think I was asking more context of this one, but maybe it's not in context.
 Right.
 So the gateway is pretty much completely trustless.
 Like clients, when they use the lightning gateway, don't need to trust that the gateway
 will give them their funds.
 Of course, the gateway is just the, it's like the conduit into the Federation, right?
 So clients always need to trust the Federation.
 And when you actually get down to it, the gateway is actually just another client.
 So the gateway also needs to trust the Federation.
 But that's it.
 So again, sorry, I didn't prepare much for this, but if you were to draw a diagram.
 Yeah, I think we need a diagram.
 Yeah, it would be like the Federation would be all the way on the left.
 And then in the middle would be the lightning gateway.
 And then on the right side, it would be like a FediMint client, like someone that wants
 to use one of the Federations.
 And the trust relationship here, like essentially flows left, but it skips the gateway.
 So like the gateway has to trust the Federation, client has to trust the Federation, but the
 client does not need to trust the gateway to receive the funds.
 So the Federation, the client needs to trust the Federation, it's the other way around.
 The client needs to trust the Federation.
 The client does not need to trust the lightning gateway.
 But the gateway needs to trust the Federation.
 The gateway needs to trust the Federation, gotcha.
 And let me add one more reason to explain why, like really the trust relationship always
 in FediMint is that the clients need to trust the Federation.
 And you've probably heard this before, right?
 Because of the consensus mechanism and like, if a threshold number of the guardians collude,
 they can steal the funds.
 And in this case, the gateway is just another client.
 So both the gateway and the client here are both FediMint clients.
 The gateway is kind of just performing this like special operation that interacts with
 the lightning network.
 So it's kind of almost like they're standing next to each other instead of being in the
 middle, would you say?
 Or would you say that, yeah, it's kind of they're standing next to each other a bit.
 It's, I mean, it depends on what we're trying to describe.
 For the trust relationship, there's definitely like the gateway is not in between.
 But you have it correct here and that they both must trust the Federation.
 In terms of the actual operations, though, like the client will go through the gateway.
 So that's a little different, but I think it's kind of trying to show something separate.
 Yeah, what another way to say this is the gateway is just another client that is bringing
 value add to the FediMint.
 Yeah, yeah.
 The gateway has the ability to essentially do the swap between the lightning network
 and the e-cash notes, but ultimately is just interacting with the Federation in a similar
 way that the client might.
 So it's kind of like if you would compare it, it's like the Federation would be like
 the original robot that was created and the lightning gateway is almost it's a duplicate
 of the original robot, but not fully, but kind of does the same thing.
 Well, it's more of a duplicate of the client.
 Like you can think of the lightning gateway as a smarter FediMint client.
 Because it still holds e-cash notes and it needs to, in fact, it actually needs to do
 a peg in to get e-cash notes so that it can service other users.
 Because it essentially needs e-cash notes to do like outgoing payments and things like
 that.
 If we were to use a traditional finance metaphor, would there be an applicable one for the lightning
 gateway and Federation in terms of like banks or like lending institutions?
 Oh, that's a good question.
 I unfortunately don't know the banking systems very well.
 I get the point better than I know.
 Could you repeat that question?
 Yeah.
 If we were to use a metaphor for help people better understand this, that we're familiar
 with banking institutions, I'm asking like, would there be something applicable that we
 could apply to this?
 Yeah, I think I might have something that might be applicable, at least in my mental
 model is most banks may or may not run like payment systems.
 However, Visa runs those on their behalf.
 So like if I'm using Visa, they're running a payments rails for my bank.
 And so Visa does the debit card for my bank.
 In my mental model, the Federment is the bank and then the gateway client is Visa in this
 instance.
 Like they are providing a service, which is payments that they're taking a fee to operate
 and everything like that.
 I don't know if that makes sense to anybody else, but that's how I would see it in like
 a banking metaphor.
 It's probably not perfect though, because yeah.
 Yeah, it's interesting to think about.
 And yeah, thinking further about this notion of trust, the flow that we're building here,
 I was wondering without too much of a technical understanding, but enough to, I guess, kind
 of be dangerous.
 Would it be at all possible to somehow apply like a reputation score to a given federation?
 Maybe it's a community voted attribute or it's the time that the federation has been
 in existence or it's uptime or the fact that it's never run cold or something like that.
 I think that's an interesting concept for sure, but I don't know.
 I think that lives outside of like the Federment protocol.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 If we take their goals, because now I'm trying to like, I'm trying to understand with the
 goals that you guys have mentioned.
 I'm just like dragging those goals up over to this part over here.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 It's a little bit tricky, but maybe we'll eventually be able to make something out of this.
 So, you know, they're going to need to swap between e-cash notes and the Lightning Gateway.
 It needs to allow for e-cash notes and up-bound liquidity.
 This is a duplication over here.
 And then their gain is that they get to stack more sats.
 Okay, so in terms of their needs, would this be their primary need is basically swapping the e-cash notes?
 Did I write this correctly? Swapping between e-cash notes and the Lightning Gateway.
 Would that kind of be main?
 Yeah, essentially, the way it works is...
 Like, say you're doing an outgoing payment.
 Essentially, the Fetimate client, the user that wants to make the outgoing payment,
 will lock in some e-cash notes in essentially a smart contract that lives within the Federation.
 Then it will tell the Gateway, "Hey, go and pay this Lightning invoice for me."
 And in return, I will pay you via this smart contract, where you can see I've already locked up the e-cash notes.
 And then receiving works a little differently,
 where essentially the client creates an invoice and encrypts the pre-image and uploads it to the Federation.
 Then the Gateway waits for HTLCs and intercepts them and detects that the HTLC is destined for the Federation.
 And if it does detect that, it will buy the pre-image using e-cash notes from the Federation.
 And that's the actual deposit part.
 So essentially, the Gateway will give e-cash notes to the end Fetimate user,
 and then the pre-image is decrypted and given back over the Lightning network,
 which pays the Gateway via Lightning.
 So that's the swap on the receive side.
 Essentially, the first one's outgoing payments, the second one is incoming payments into the Federation.
 So they're sending and receiving.
 So let me see, this is pretty technical.
 I'm trying to get my brain around it.
 So if you're doing an outgoing payment, the person who wants to make the payment will lock in some e-cash notes.
 So there's these imaginary e-cash notes.
 And then it will tell the Gateway, go and pay these e-cash notes for me.
 It'll say, go and pay the Lightning invoice.
 And in exchange, you'll get the e-cash notes as a payment for doing that.
 So you can see where the swap is.
 Essentially, the Lightning invoice is then paid, and the Gateway is paid in e-cash notes.
 So there's the swap happening here in the rebuild.
 Please feel free to ask questions.
 I'm trying my best to just ask questions to you, but it's some other level stuff, understanding this.
 But I think I have a...
 Okay, so they're sending, and then the person who wants to make the payment, they lock in some e-cash notes.
 And there's a swapping that goes on in the background between the e-cash notes and the Lightning network.
 There's the swapping going on, and then the person gets the e-cash notes.
 And then they have liquidity, and then they can send.
 Right. So the assumption in the outgoing case is that the Lightning Gateway, which is connected to a Lightning node, like LND or CLN,
 it needs outgoing capacity to make that payment, right?
 If it doesn't have any channels, then the payment will fail, for instance.
 Is it possible that a person might not have that outgoing liquidity set up?
 Is it possible that they might need help in setting up that outbound liquidity?
 So that's why I said at the beginning that I think the people that will be best suited for running these are existing routing nodes,
 because they will already have that set up.
 But it's very possible that even if you do have that set up, you might not have a route to the person you're trying to pay.
 And payments can fail that way as well.
 It's the case, though, that if you had even just one channel, but that one channel was a big one, like let's say River, for example,
 then it's highly likely that that payment would go through, right?
 Yeah, as long as there's a route. It's the same as the normal Lightning network in that respect.
 Right, right. So getting back to the overall personas, the general use case would be that the person is pretty well versed with Lightning already,
 and that anybody that wasn't typically wouldn't be a gateway user.
 Correct.
 And I think that's more of a mint-by-mint question, right?
 Because if you have an amateur Lightning operator that wants to try to set up a gateway and provide these services,
 there's nothing that's stopping it.
 But the ideal candidate for a mint is going to be somebody with operational experience running a Lightning node that's already well-connected.
 Otherwise, you're going to run into liquidity problems and all the other challenges that make Lightning operations hard.
 Correct me if I'm wrong, it feels a little bit like there's these two. It's kind of the Lightning router node or an LSP.
 Or you have a third one here, someone that already has a successful routing Lightning node, but that feels like it's the first one.
 Yeah, that's the same thing as the first one.
 This is the same thing as the first one. So the LSP is kind of on its own.
 Yeah, and really, I'd say the only distinction between an LSP and a successful Lightning router node is probably if they're backed by a company or not.
 Right, right, right.
 I'm picturing LSPs being like Zebedee or Voltage or any of these sort of bigger Lightning service providers.
 Whereas a Lightning router node might just be some hobbyist that runs a pretty big node and put up all that capital themselves to do that.
 So referring back to the existing personas that have been created, maybe I know that there's one that would be applicable to the gateway usage.
 The user, I think his name is, let me just check really quick, Peter, the Neo bank entrepreneur.
 And possibly Ben would both fit into that, just those node runners.
 And then so a possible second persona would be the LSP.
 Yeah. Does it feel like they're these two, they're very separate because the LSP is really backed by a company.
 And then the Lightning router node is someone who just has that successful node set up.
 They have the liquidity going. They run a big node.
 Yeah, I think it's worth describing them as separate.
 It's mainly about resources, right? LSPs will have more resources to put into their setups.
 But at the end of the day, taking a step back and not looking at the individual personas here, really all you need is a Lightning node.
 You need a Lightning node that is well capitalized.
 And both of these people, the first one and the second one, the Lightning router node and the LSP will fit that description.
 But I think the difference lies in, like I said, the resources that they have to put into it.
 The first one is the Lightning router node. That might be someone that does it kind of on their spare time, looks at it in the evenings.
 Whereas maybe the LSP actually have a dedicated person who sort of manages the liquidity for it.
 Yeah. Do they both kind of benefit the same?
 I mean, I'm just thinking profit wise, like from a SaaS perspective, the LSP has kind of more resources in the setup.
 So in terms of the end goal, they would end up stacking more cash nodes than the Lightning router node.
 Or what do you guys think?
 Yeah, that depends on a few things.
 Mainly, it's similar to Lightning where it'll depend on how many payments are coming in and out of the federation that they're connected to.
 And it will also depend on how they set their fees.
 And right now, the way the fees are implemented right now is just, I think it's 1% of incoming payments and outgoing payments are free.
 But that will be changing. So that's still a work in progress.
 So once that functionality exists to make fees more flexible, that would introduce this concept of a competition.
 So I'm going to go with this federation because they provide more incentive for me to provide liquidity over there rather than this federation.
 Well, it would be the gateways that would be competing.
 Yes. And we don't have to get into it too much, but just I can shed a little light on what we're thinking for fees.
 At least in my opinion, the main thing is that fees for outgoing payments and incoming payments will probably be separate.
 And the reason behind that is that incoming payments have this trust relationship where you have to trust the federation.
 So you could imagine, say, a gateway is connected to two federations, Federation A and Federation B.
 Federation A is maybe super trustworthy, run by known people, that kind of thing.
 And whereas Federation B is like, let's say, is run by total anons.
 No one knows who they are. Maybe a little more sketchy.
 The gateway might still want to provide liquidity for Federation B, but it might do so at a higher fee rate to sort of hedge its own risk kind of thing.
 So this is starting to look like it's making a lot more sense. And please feel free to correct it if it's wrong.
 We have this persona whose end goal is swapping between e-cash notes and the Lightning Gateway.
 Actually, it feels like this is a task that they do.
 Would you say that the task that they perform is they allow for inbound and outbound liquidity?
 Yeah, yeah. Like at a high level. They allow people to deposit and withdraw using the Lightning Network from the federation.
 So what they gain is the swap between the e-cash notes and the Lightning Gateway.
 And the task that they perform is they allow for inbound and outbound liquidity.
 And then we kind of have these two guys. We have an LSP and then we have the Lightning router node.
 The LSP is backed by a company. They have a bit more liquidity.
 The Lightning router node is just someone who has a big node themselves and kind of does it in their spare time.
 What do they gain? They gain two steps more stats. And the stats are paid out in e-cash notes.
 So that's a gain. Yeah.
 So I'll mention one more thing. I don't want to make it too complicated, but they're paid out in e-cash notes or over the Lightning Network.
 So essentially on incoming payments. So when people are pegging in to the Lightning Network using the Gateway, the Gateway will gain e-cash notes.
 And right now, as you said, it stacks stats that way because it gets fees that way.
 On outgoing payments. Sorry, did I have that backwards? I had that backwards.
 In incoming payments, sorry, they actually gain stats on the Lightning Network.
 So over their channel and they essentially deposit e-cash notes to the end recipient who is inside the federation.
 On outgoing payments, it's the opposite. So on outgoing payments, they gain e-cash notes, but they lose stats that are in their Lightning channels.
 And last thing here is that depending on the rate at which either outgoing or incoming payments are happening,
 you could imagine there's like a lot, let's say a lot of people are withdrawing.
 So outgoing payments, that means that the Gateway is going to end up with a lot of e-cash notes.
 And they might not like that.
 Like, again, depending on their, it's similar to balancing a channel where they might not like that they have a lot of e-cash notes because they have to trust the federation.
 In which case, they periodically will need to do an on-chain peg out to get actual Bitcoin for the e-cash notes.
 And then, yeah, this is kind of like, I'm sort of describing the maintenance operations you'll need to do.
 That's for one side. And then on the other side, if you have a lot of incoming payments, that means that they have a lot of stats on the Lightning network,
 but they don't, they're running out of e-cash notes because they're giving them out to users who are doing the deposits.
 So in that case, they might need to do a peg in on-chain to essentially deposit more Bitcoin and get e-cash notes for it.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 So it's very similar to in the Lightning Network when you need to sort of balance your channels
 and you might need to do a submarine swap or something to get a balanced channel.
 You'll need to do the out these gateways will probably need to be doing either peg ins or
 peg outs depending on the balance of their e-cash notes and their channels.
 I'm just gonna really like I'm just a fan of diagrams.
 This is making a lot of sense now.
 It's like I'm just going to do it like this incoming outgoing the dependencies would be
 the fees of this would kind of be going out here on the side and then they have these
 they have it is so that's kind of the main goal.
 The outgoing payments which are kind of dependent on these two things over here incoming payments
 they need to pay so there's the peg in so the peg in is it is like a need peg in it's
 almost like a need and then the peg out is also a need.
 That needs to happen or be possible within the user interface.
 Does that make sense what I've just put together here?
 So I think so.
 But right just to say it a different way the peg ins and peg outs via on chain will be
 important for the lightning gateways because that's essentially how they're going to manage
 their liquidity and manage their e-cash notes.
 And it's like very similar to how an existing lightning node like balances their channels.
 And so yes thinking a little further down to the UI.
 You know the UI.
 Well I mean this might be a lot longer conversation but like the UI will need to make that easy.
 I don't know if that should be done using the lightning gateway UI or if that should
 be done using like the normal FedEmic client UI.
 Yeah I'm not sure but that will need to be easy.
 They will need to be doing that just to manage their liquidity.
 And then the fees part is a dependency because at the moment the fees are kind of set to
 1%.
 Would you see them as, you mentioned the future, they could maybe like tweak the fee amount
 to what the amount that they would prefer.
 Would that be possible?
 Yeah we're still developing that part right now.
 And the 1% that's going to, so like actually right now you can change that but it's defaulted
 to 1%.
 I forget if it's for, I thought it was for incoming but maybe it's for outgoing.
 I don't remember.
 But regardless I don't, like you can kind of put a big TBD there because we're still
 working on that part.
 We'll just put this as a TBD.
 Something else that comes to mind, we kind of have this guy now who's swapping his e-cash
 notes.
 They're performing this task of this inbound outbound liquidity.
 On the inbound side they're gaining sets, on the allied network on the outbound side
 they're losing sets but they're getting e-cash notes.
 Because of that they need to peg in and peg out.
 And then here they are, here is the LSP and then they can use the note.
 Is there anything else you guys think would be important to add in?
 I think that kind of covers it.
 My main thing was that, I guess the main point I wanted to say in contrast to the existing
 personas that Kipman worked on and you guys had in the, you were showing earlier.
 I think these are more specific because of the liquidity issue.
 Essentially you kind of need someone with Bitcoin on the Lightning Network that knows
 how to manage this stuff.
 It shouldn't just be like someone that doesn't have any idea what the Lightning Network is
 but just wants to participate.
 That's someone that's harder to get working here.
 And it's more difficult since you need capital.
 You need Bitcoin to do this.
 Whereas for the, just contrasting a little bit, for the Fetiment Guardian to run a Fetiment
 D, you know, Damon and be a Guardian, you actually don't need liquidity for that.
 You can just run this little program and participate in the consensus and you're good.
 But with this, you need liquidity in order for it to be productive at all.
 So I think that extra constraint sort of limits who is actually going to run these things.
 It also kind of answers the question from, because Jose's shot over some questions with
 how much of knowledge about Bitcoin and security do they have?
 I think a fair good amount since they've, well, how would you say?
 Yeah, they'll need to have a lot of knowledge, I think.
 I think in both the Lightning Router Node persona and the LSP, you know, both of those
 people are pretty well versed in the Lightning network and know how to do like swaps and
 manage their liquidity.
 I'd say that's kind of a requirement for running one of these things.
 Another thing to keep in mind is like, because you're not limited to just one gateway, you
 might have a gateway run out of liquidity.
 But if you have multiple gateways, that's only a benefit to the clients of the Fetterment
 because now there's multiple options for that outbound set.
 Yeah, you're just speaking from like an end user perspective, right?
 Right, right.
 Yeah.
 Yep.
 So could one of their goals be to set up multiple gateways?
 Because if they set up multiple gateways, then they get more, you know, they get to
 get more swap between, swapping between e-cash nodes and the Lightning gateway.
 So if they set up more of these gateways, then they serve to gain more.
 Would that make sense?
 No, you don't really gain much by doing that.
 So say you're running a gateway, the way you can make more money is either you support
 more federations or you just have more liquidity coming into your node.
 Say you were to run multiple gateways, that doesn't really help you because now you need
 to manage liquidity from two separate nodes.
 So that doesn't really help you that much, I think.
 But supporting more federations comes with the trust trade-off.
 So they can do that, but you know, it's kind of a risk trust thing, right?
 It can be more profitable, but it could also be more risky.
 So they'll be looking for the more trusted gateways.
 No, what's the word if I'm using the right word?
 Federations.
 So they're looking for more trusted federations to set up these relationships with because
 those are the trusted guys.
 A hundred percent.
 Yeah.
 Again, I just think of it from my own perspective.
 Say I'm running a gateway and I have to hold e-cash notes from your federation.
 If I don't know you, you're going to have to somehow convince me to hold your e-cash
 notes so that I'm convinced that you're not going to run off with my Bitcoin.
 Yeah.
 So one of my questions was, how would a federation, you know, you run off with someone's Bitcoin,
 could they just decide to just close or just remove the federation without providing those
 funds back to the gateway provider?
 Yeah, I mean, there'd be a few different ways to do that, to run off with the money.
 So today, in FettyMint, the federations can't, if there is a rug pull, then they need to
 change the code, essentially.
 You can't do that by default, which is good.
 But they could essentially, like, there's like an on-chain wallet, essentially, and
 the federation members could go and take that on-chain wallet out of band and construct
 a Bitcoin transaction that would steal the funds.
 It's a little more difficult.
 You need to have a lot of technical knowledge to know how to do that.
 But what is a bigger risk, I think, that doesn't require technical knowledge is just shutting
 the federation down, so say you have four members, all four members are like, you know,
 screw it, we're just done doing this.
 And they don't allow for any peg outs.
 So in that case, they don't steal the money, but the money is stuck.
 You can't get it back.
 So in the Guardian UI, there would be no option button to like add federation or anything
 like that.
 It's just not a provided option, right?
 Right.
 I mean, again, this is the trust model.
 So like when you get into situations where you're talking about like, oh, how do you
 get the Bitcoin back if like over the threshold amount of the Guardians have gone, you know,
 offline, you're kind of stuck.
 There's really not much you can do.
 Yeah.
 So the peg in and the peg out feature is quite an important one.
 But then they're also like, so they're providing this, okay, cash, they're allowing for inbound.
 So how are they monitoring this task that they're doing?
 So they're providing this inbound and outbound liquidity.
 How are they able to check the liquidity that they're providing and how are they able to
 check who they're providing liquidity to?
 Would that need to be something that's built into the interface, like some sort of overview
 of I'm providing liquidity to all of these clients, that kind of thing?
 Yeah.
 So I think in like this, you know, future UI for the gateway, I know Jodham has done
 a little work on this already.
 So I'm not exactly sure what he's done.
 But it'd be really nice if there was some kind of, I'll call it like a history of incoming
 and outgoing payments.
 And here we might need to be a bit careful.
 I don't think there's probably not a ton of info you can actually show because of the
 privacy aspect of it.
 You won't know.
 I'm pretty sure you won't know when you do an income, when the gateway facilitates an
 incoming payment, for instance, the gateway is not going to know who it's doing that for.
 But it should know that, oh, like I, you know, I facilitated an incoming payment of 3000
 stats or something like that.
 So you could have, like, I guess I'm kind of picturing like in Ride the Lightning, Ride
 the Lightning kind of shows you the payments that you route.
 And this is very similar in that you can actually think of the gateway as almost another routing
 node on the Lightning network.
 It just has a special ability to interact with federations.
 And so I'm picturing something kind of similar to what RTL does where you say, hey, like
 I routed a payment for this much, this many stats and I took a small fee of, you know,
 X number of stats, something like that.
 Yeah.
 I guess for them as well, since it's also has this like kind of profit model for them,
 like at the end of a month, they might want to like tally up like this is how many payments,
 this is how much of inbound and outbound liquidity we provided.
 And this is kind of how much we stacked as a result of doing this.
 Yeah.
 Again, in the Lightning network, there's the concept of like, I think it's the total capacity
 routed.
 And then there's also your fees.
 And you could, yeah, you could have a similar metric for this.
 Gotcha.
 Cool.
 It feels like we have a pretty clear persona.
 This is definitely very, it's really specific, this persona, these personas, I would say.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 I'll try to think of any more.
 I don't want to exclude anyone.
 Yeah.
 This is kind of the, you know, when you sent that message a few days ago, I started thinking
 about this, these were kind of what I came up with.
 Yeah.
 This is looking really messy at the moment, but I think it's like, you know, you kind
 of start with their main goals of what they want to do, the tasks that they're performing,
 then basically it's just the incoming and the outgoing stuff that's going on.
 They would need to be able to pay in and pay out because this is how they manage their
 costs.
 Possibly in the future, also the fees, but that's not at the moment.
 And maybe they would need to see their total capacity in the end so that they can, you
 know, run it like a business, so to say.
 Yeah.
 On the fees thing, like that's coming.
 That's like definitely going to be part of the roadmap.
 We're just like currently implementing it.
 And then we pretty much have the LSB and the Lightning router node and they really need
 the liquidity to be able to do that.
 So I hope that this is enough for the designers to work with in terms of, yeah.
 And I guess if they have any questions, we can just add them in here.
 Sounds good.
 Yeah.
 I think we'll just share this with the guys and then see if they have any questions.
 And if you guys think of anything, just feel free to just totally go in here and edit stuff
 and make notes and that kind of stuff.
 Yeah.
 I'll stop sharing my screen.
 Yeah.
 Cool.
 Thanks.
 You had so much in your brain that just needed to come out.
 Just needed to kind of snap it.
 That's what happens when you think about it for a few days and don't get a chance to write
 it down.
 So yeah.
 Appreciate that.
 Yeah.
 Feel free to ping me offline.
 Happy to answer any other questions that didn't get through.
 Cool.
 Yeah.
 I'll stop the recording.
 Otherwise I will forget.
