Q: Is it possible to send E-Cash directly to a user of another federation, and if not, why not?

A: Fedimint payments surface as LN payments already. You can transact directly ecash but with a LN gateway provider, all payments are LN by default. 

User A wants to revive eCash and hits a gateway of Mint A and receives an invoice to provide to User B of Mint B. Mint B’s gateway takes the invoice and does all the normal LN stuff. When the transaction settles, Mint B issues the eCash to User B. 

Behind the scenes, both Mint gateways have contracts to swap eCash for LN sats or vice versa, depending on directionality. 

In short, if both federations have LN gateways, it is possible to send between them. Just not using the offline ecash system. HOWEVER, if the ecash is sent offline from A to B. B could go to Mint A and claim the ecash then route out to their own Mint or LN wallet.

Q: Can somebody explain how do offline payments work with Fedimint? How does know the receiver a payment has been done by the sender if at the time of the payment an Internet connection is down?

A: Offline works because eCash is a string of data that can be validated by an offline client. It's signed by the federation so a client of said federation can validate the signature using the federations public key (generalized term).

So i present you eCash string(s), most likely multiple strings since the Mint will break down the amounts into pieces (like quarters, dimes, nickels), your client checks the signature for validitiy.

Once you're online, you take those ecash notes to the Mint and redeem them for new ones. This is where an attack could occur. If I were malicious, I could get online first and redeem the same eCash that I sent you, prohbiting you from claiming them. 

So while it's possible to transact offline, it presents a race condition. This can be generally avoided with establishing trust within the Mint. Especially in client software. ie. You know I'm using a fedimint client that burns the ecash sent so I cannot redeem it.